TL-QLDMR: A Transfer Learning Quantile Regression Model for
Wind Power Forecasting under Extreme Events
Junlin Chena , Bo Wanga,∗ , Zhihang Yua , Pei-chun Linb , Libo Zhangc and Junzo Watadad
a School of Management and Engineering, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China
b Department of Information Engineering and Computer Science, Feng Chia University, Taiwan 40724, China
c College of Artificial Intelligence, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China
d Graduate School of Information, Production and Systems, Waseda University, Kitakyushu 808-0135, Japan

ARTICLE INFO
Keywords:
Wind power forecasting
Large-margin distribution machine
Quantile regression
Transfer learning
Extreme events

ABSTRACT
Accurate wind power forecasting under extreme events is critical for grid stability and renewable
energy integration, yet remains a formidable challenge due to severe data scarcity and substantial
distribution shifts between normal and extreme-event operating regimes. While kernel-based
methods, particularly support vector regression and Large-margin Distribution Machine-based
Regression (LDMR), have demonstrated strong performance in various regression tasks due
to their theoretical guarantees and robustness on limited data, their application to extremeevent forecasting faces critical limitations: the i.i.d. assumption underlying standard kernel
methods is fundamentally violated under cross-domain scenarios, and the symmetric variance
minimization in LDMR implicitly encourages symmetric error distributions, which conflicts
with the asymmetric nature of quantile-based interval prediction required for uncertainty
quantification. To extend kernel-based regression to extreme-event forecasting, we propose
Transfer Learning Quantile Large-margin Distribution Machine for Regression (TL-QLDMR),
which addresses these challenges through three synergistic innovations: (i) an asymmetric
variance regularizer that preserves LDMR’s distributional robustness while accommodating
quantile-specific error asymmetry, (ii) a supervised transfer learning framework integrating
maximum mean discrepancy for feature alignment and weighted pinball loss for label adaptation,
enabling effective knowledge transfer from abundant normal-domain data to scarce extremeevent samples, and (iii) a scalable Nyström-SGD solver reducing complexity from 𝑂(𝑁 3 ) to
𝑂(𝑇 ⋅ 𝑁 ⋅ 𝑚). Comprehensive experiments on six wind farms demonstrate that TL-QLDMR
achieves competitive performance in both deterministic and probabilistic forecasting in the
extreme-event domain, with superior reliability-sharpness trade-off and practical scalability,
making it suitable for real-time applications where interpretability and theoretical guarantees
are prioritized.

1. Introduction
The global transition toward renewable energy has positioned wind power as a cornerstone of sustainable electricity
generation. However, the inherent intermittency and volatility of wind resources pose significant challenges to power
grid stability and dispatch optimality (Yuan et al., 2023). Accurate wind power forecasting is therefore critical for
balancing supply and demand, reducing operational costs, and ensuring reliable grid integration (Petersen et al.,
2026; Wen & Pinson, 2026). While substantial progress has been achieved in short-term forecasting under normal
meteorological conditions, prediction performance can degrade significantly during extreme events, particularly those
associated with typhoons, cold waves, or heat waves, with error increases of 30-50% commonly observed when wind
power fluctuations are most severe and grid stability is most vulnerable (Yan et al., 2025; Jonkers et al., 2024).
Extreme events present a dual challenge for data-driven forecasting models. First, such events are inherently rare,
resulting in severe data scarcity: extreme-condition samples typically constitute less than 5% of historical records
(Chen & Xu, 2022). Second, the dynamics under extreme-event conditions differ fundamentally from normal operating
∗ Corresponding author: Bo Wang
E-mail address: jlchen08@163.com (J. Chen), bowangsme@nju.edu.cn (B. Wang), zhihangyu@smail.nju.edu.cn (Z. Yu),
peiclin@fcu.edu.tw (P. Lin), lbzhang@swu.edu.cn (L. Zhang), junzo.watada@gmail.com (J. Watada)

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 1 of 31

regimes, inducing substantial distribution shifts in both feature space (e.g., wind speed, temperature) and label space. In
this work, the term extreme events is used in a broad operational sense: it includes, but is not limited to, named severeweather processes and instead denotes rare, high-risk, and out-of-distribution states induced by extreme meteorological
deviations and their associated turbine responses. For instance, during typhoon events, wind speeds may exceed 25
m/s, triggering turbine cut-out operations that produce near-zero power output—a pattern rarely observed in normaldomain training data. This creates a covariate shift in the input space and a label shift in the output space, both of
which challenge conventional machine learning models that assume training and testing data are independently and
identically distributed (i.i.d.) (Mustaffa & Sulaiman, 2025; Chen & Shi, 2025).
Among the diverse landscape of forecasting methodologies, kernel-based approaches—particularly Support Vector
Regression (SVR) and its variants—have been extensively applied to wind power forecasting and have demonstrated
competitive performance under normal-operating conditions (Wang et al., 2021; Li et al., 2021; Luo et al., 2024; Yuan
et al., 2022). The SVR methodology continues to evolve, with recent advances in optimization algorithms, convergence
properties, and robustness enhancements. These kernel methods offer several distinctive advantages over black-box
deep learning models: strong generalization guarantees rooted in statistical learning theory, effective handling of
high-dimensional feature spaces through the kernel trick, convex optimization formulations that guarantee global
optima, and robust performance on small-to-medium-sized datasets where deep models tend to overfit. Moreover,
their interpretability and theoretical foundations make them particularly attractive for safety-critical applications such
as grid dispatch, where model transparency is often required by regulatory standards. Recent studies have further
enriched kernel regression through robust SVM formulations (Trafalis & Gilbert, 2006), bounded-loss regression (Fu
et al., 2023), and multiple-kernel learning with compound regularization (Jiang et al., 2021), reinforcing the continuing
relevance of robustness-oriented kernel learning for forecast tasks involving noisy and heterogeneous data.
However, existing kernel-based wind power forecasting studies predominantly focus on normal-operating conditions with deterministic point prediction objectives. Traditional SVR minimizes the 𝜖-insensitive loss to estimate
the conditional mean, achieving robust point predictions under Gaussian noise assumptions. More generally, direct
quantile-based forecasting has long been recognized as an effective route to interval generation under skewed and
heteroscedastic demand patterns (Taylor, 2007). To address the need for uncertainty quantification, Support Vector
Quantile Regression (SVQR) extends SVR by replacing the symmetric 𝜖-loss with the asymmetric pinball loss,
enabling estimation of conditional quantiles for prediction intervals (Ye et al., 2025b, 2023). Recent SVQR variants
incorporate twin-hyperplane designs (Ye et al., 2023), robustness-enhancing loss formulations (Hazarika et al., 2023),
and nonlinear feature selection (Ye et al., 2025b) to improve scalability and robustness. Despite these methodological
advances, the application of kernel-based methods to extreme-event forecasting remains largely unexplored, presenting
both challenges and opportunities for methodological extension.
However, a fundamental limitation shared by both SVR and SVQR is that they optimize only the minimum margin
while ignoring the statistical distribution of margins across the entire dataset. This focus on worst-case samples can
lead to overfitting and poor generalization, particularly when training data contains outliers or label noise. To overcome
this limitation, the Large-margin Distribution Machine-based Regression (LDMR) paradigm was introduced, which
explicitly optimizes both the mean and variance of the margin distribution (Zhang & Zhou, 2020; Gupta & Gupta,
2021). By concentrating prediction errors tightly around zero, LDMR achieves superior generalization compared to
classical SVR on a wide range of regression tasks (Gupta & Gupta, 2021; Hazarika & Gupta, 2023). Variants of LDMR
have been successfully applied to wind turbine fault detection (Tang et al., 2019), imbalanced classification (Cheng
et al., 2016), and structural health monitoring (Yang et al., 2024), demonstrating its robustness in noisy industrial
environments. However, LDMR has not been systematically applied to wind power forecasting, particularly under

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 2 of 31

extreme-event conditions where both distributional robustness and probabilistic interval prediction are required. These
characteristics—combined with LDMR’s theoretical foundations—make it a promising candidate for extension to
forecasting in the extreme-event domain.
However, extending kernel-based methods from the normal-operating domain to the extreme-event domain
introduces three critical challenges that require methodological innovation. First, the i.i.d. assumption—that training
and testing data are drawn from the same distribution—is a foundational premise of both SVR/SVQR and LDMR.
While this assumption holds reasonably well within a single operating regime, it is systematically violated when
transferring knowledge from normal (source domain) to extreme-event (target domain) conditions. For example, in
our preliminary analysis of six wind farms, the Wasserstein distance between normal and extreme power distributions
ranges from 5.96 to 21.06, indicating substantial distributional discrepancy. A model trained solely on abundant
normal-domain data will inevitably exhibit performance degradation when deployed under extreme conditions,
regardless of how well the margin distribution is optimized within the source domain. While transfer learning and
domain adaptation techniques have been extensively studied in computer vision (Tao et al., 2012) and sensor drift
compensation (Yan et al., 2022; Guo et al., 2022; Zhai et al., 2023; Se et al., 2023), their principled integration with
kernel-based regression for wind power forecasting remains an open research question.
Second, there exists a fundamental theoretical tension between LDMR’s distributional robustness mechanism
and the requirements of quantile regression. The core principle of LDMR—minimizing the variance of prediction
residuals—implicitly encourages a symmetric, concentrated error distribution around zero. This is theoretically
appropriate and empirically effective for conditional mean estimation, as evidenced by LDMR’s superior performance
over SVR in numerous regression benchmarks. However, quantile regression at level 𝜏 ≠ 0.5 requires an inherently
asymmetric residual distribution: for example, when estimating the 95th percentile, approximately 95% of errors
should be negative and only 5% positive. Naively applying LDMR’s variance minimization to quantile regression will
force the error distribution toward symmetry, thereby degrading interval calibration and violating the target coverage
probability. This theoretical conflict has received limited attention in the literature, as existing LDMR studies focus
primarily on mean regression, and existing SVQR studies do not incorporate distributional robustness. Reconciling
these two objectives—distributional robustness and quantile-specific asymmetry—requires a principled modification
of the LDMR framework.
Third, existing transfer learning approaches for wind power forecasting predominantly adopt unsupervised domain
adaptation strategies, focusing exclusively on aligning feature distributions while treating target-domain labels—
even when available in small quantities—as entirely unused supervision signals (Tao et al., 2012; Guo et al., 2022).
This design choice is reasonable when target labels are completely unavailable, but is suboptimal for extremeevent forecasting, where scarce target samples represent high-value information that captures critical domain-specific
dynamics such as cut-out behavior and power curtailment. A more effective transfer learning framework should
leverage both feature-space alignment and label-space supervision, strategically weighting target samples to guide
model adaptation. This supervised transfer learning paradigm has been successfully applied in computer vision and
natural language processing, but its integration with kernel-based quantile regression for wind power forecasting
remains unexplored.
To address these challenges and extend kernel-based regression to extreme-event forecasting, Transfer Learning
Quantile Large-margin Distribution Machine for Regression (TL-QLDMR) is proposed as a principled extension of the
classical LDMR paradigm for cross-domain probabilistic wind power prediction. The resulting framework preserves
the theoretical strengths of kernel-based methods—convex optimization, generalization guarantees, and robustness on
limited data—while introducing three synergistic innovations tailored to the extreme-event setting.

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 3 of 31

First, a novel asymmetric variance regularization mechanism is introduced to reconcile the tension between
distributional robustness and quantile estimation. Unlike standard LDMR, which implicitly encourages symmetric error
distributions through variance minimization, the proposed formulation employs asymmetric variance regularization
based on algebraic residuals, thereby compressing overall error dispersion while preserving the requisite skewness for
accurate quantile prediction. This innovation enables TL-QLDMR to achieve both superior point prediction accuracy
and well-calibrated prediction intervals, a capability that neither standard LDMR nor SVQR alone can provide.
Second, a supervised transfer learning framework is developed to integrate two complementary adaptation
mechanisms. In the feature space, Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD) minimization aligns the source and target
distributions in the Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space (RKHS), reducing covariate shift and ensuring that the learned
feature representation is domain-invariant (Tao et al., 2012). In the label space, a weighted pinball loss mechanism
assigns substantially higher weights to scarce target-domain samples, treating them as high-value corrective anchors
that guide the model toward extreme-event dynamics. This dual-space adaptation strategy enables TL-QLDMR to
leverage abundant source data for structural learning while prioritizing target data for domain-specific refinement,
thereby addressing the label-neglect problem in existing unsupervised domain adaptation methods. This is particularly
important for extreme-event forecasting, where every extreme sample carries valuable information about rare but
critical operating conditions such as cut-out events and power curtailment.
Third, because the standard quadratic programming (QP) formulation of kernel-based transfer learning incurs
𝑂(𝑁 3 ) computational complexity through full kernel-matrix computation and inversion, a scalable Nyström-SGD
algorithm is developed by combining Nyström approximation—which constructs an explicit low-rank feature mapping
using 𝑚 ≪ 𝑁 landmark points—with stochastic gradient descent (SGD). The resulting complexity is reduced to
𝑂(𝑇 ⋅ 𝑁 ⋅ 𝑚), enabling practical deployment on large-scale supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) datasets
(Chen & Xu, 2022) that accumulate tens of thousands of samples annually.
TL-QLDMR is evaluated on a publicly available multi-site wind farm SCADA dataset encompassing six wind
farms with capacities ranging from 36 MW to 200 MW, in comparison with recent kernel-based methods, ensemble
approaches, and deep learning baselines. Experimental results demonstrate that TL-QLDMR achieves competitive
performance in both deterministic and probabilistic forecasting in the extreme-event domain, with consistent improvements across multiple evaluation metrics. Ablation studies confirm the contribution of each component, and scalability
analysis validates the efficiency of the proposed Nyström-SGD solver.
It is important to clarify the scope and positioning of this work. TL-QLDMR is designed for scenarios where
kernel-based methods’ distinctive advantages—theoretical guarantees, interpretability, sample efficiency, and convex
optimization—are particularly valuable. Such scenarios are common in practice: (i) extreme events are inherently rare,
providing limited training data where kernel methods’ sample efficiency is advantageous, (ii) grid dispatch applications
often require model transparency for regulatory compliance, and (iii) real-time forecasting systems benefit from the
computational efficiency and stability of convex optimization. Our contribution is to extend the LDMR framework
with quantile-aware asymmetry and supervised domain adaptation, demonstrating that kernel-based methods, when
properly extended, remain a competitive and theoretically grounded choice for extreme-event forecasting.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the theoretical foundations of SVQR,
LDMR, and transfer learning with MMD, establishing the building blocks for our method. Section 3 presents
the TL-QLDMR formulation, including the asymmetric variance regularizer, supervised transfer framework, and
scalable optimization algorithm. Section 4 describes the dataset, experimental setup, and comprehensive evaluation
results across deterministic prediction, probabilistic interval forecasting, ablation studies, and computational efficiency
analysis. Finally, Section 5 concludes the paper and discusses future research directions.

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 4 of 31

2. Related Work
This section briefly reviews the theoretical foundations related to the proposed method, including Support Vector
Quantile Regression, Large-margin Distribution Machine-based Regression, and Transfer Learning with Maximum
Mean Discrepancy.

2.1. Support Vector Quantile Regression
Traditional SVR relies on the 𝜖-insensitive loss function, which assumes a symmetric error distribution (e.g.,
Gaussian) and estimates the conditional mean of the target variable. However, in scenarios like partial shading
or wind curtailment, the noise distribution is often asymmetric and heteroscedastic. To address this, SVQR was
introduced to estimate conditional quantiles, providing a comprehensive view of the outcome distribution. Recent
SVQR-family developments include twin-hyperplane designs, robustness-enhancing loss formulations, and nonlinear
feature-selection variants, which improve scalability and robustness in non-Gaussian environments (Ye et al., 2023;
Hazarika et al., 2023; Ye et al., 2025b).
The core of SVQR is the non-symmetric pinball loss function, defined as
⎧
⎪𝜏𝑢,
𝐿𝜏 (𝑢) = ⎨
⎪(𝜏 − 1)𝑢,
⎩

𝑢≥0
𝑢 < 0,

(1)

where 𝜏 ∈ (0, 1) indicates the target quantile. Unlike SVR, SVQR finds a decision boundary that divides the data such
that a proportion 𝜏 of the samples lie below the boundary. The optimization problem minimizes the structural risk
along with the empirical risk measured by the pinball loss
𝑛
∑
1
𝐿𝜏 (𝑦𝑖 − (𝒘𝑇 𝜙(𝒙𝑖 ) + 𝑏)),
min ‖𝒘‖2 + 𝐶
𝒘,𝑏 2
𝑖=1

(2)

this formulation allows SVQR to capture heavy-tailed distributions and outliers more effectively than mean-based
regression.

2.2. Large-margin Distribution Machine-based Regression
While SVR and SVQR focus on maximizing the minimum margin, they largely ignore the statistical distribution
of the margin over the entire dataset. LDMR was proposed to improve generalization by explicitly optimizing the
distribution of the margins. From early large-margin distribution formulations to least-squares and mode-seeking
variants, LDMR has evolved into a practical framework for robust learning under noisy conditions (Zhang & Zhou,
2014, 2020; Gupta & Gupta, 2021; Hazarika & Gupta, 2023).
The key idea of LDMR is to not only maximize the margin of the support vectors but also to minimize the variance
of the error distribution for all samples. A typical LDMR formulation for regression integrates two additional statistical
regularization terms into the objective function
𝑛
∑
1
2
min ‖𝒘‖ + 𝜆1 Var(Residuals) + 𝜆2 Mean(Residuals) + 𝐶
𝐿(𝑦𝑖 , 𝑓 (𝒙𝑖 )),
𝒘,𝑏 2
𝑖=1

(3)

by constraining the variance, LDMR forces the prediction errors to be clustered tightly around zero, leading to a
more compact and robust hypothesis space. However, this variance minimization implicitly encourages symmetric

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 5 of 31

error distributions. Our work extends this concept by introducing an asymmetric variance regularization mechanism
suitable for quantile regression, which preserves the distributional robustness of LDMR while accommodating the
inherent asymmetry required for accurate quantile estimation.

2.3. Transfer Learning and Maximum Mean Discrepancy
Standard machine learning models operate under the assumption that training (source) and testing (target) data are
drawn from the same probability distribution. When this assumption is violated—such as in wind power forecasting
across different operating regimes—the model performance degrades significantly. Transfer learning aims to transfer
knowledge from a label-rich source domain to a target domain with different but related distributions. MMD-based
adaptation has been widely used in transfer scenarios because it provides a non-parametric discrepancy measure in
RKHS and integrates naturally with kernelized objectives (Tao et al., 2012; Yan et al., 2022; Guo et al., 2022; Zhai
et al., 2023; Se et al., 2023).
A fundamental challenge in transfer learning is measuring and reducing the distribution discrepancy. MMD is a
widely used non-parametric metric that measures the distance between two distributions in a RKHS. Given source data
{𝒙𝑆,𝑖 } and target data {𝒙𝑇 ,𝑗 }, the squared MMD distance is defined as
‖ ∑
‖2
𝑛𝑆
𝑛𝑇
∑
‖
‖
1
1
MMD2 (𝐷𝑆 , 𝐷𝑇 ) = ‖
𝜙(𝒙𝑆,𝑖 ) −
𝜙(𝒙𝑇 ,𝑗 )‖
‖𝑛
‖ ,
𝑛
‖ 𝑆 𝑖=1
‖
𝑇 𝑗=1
‖
‖

(4)

where 𝜙(⋅) is the feature mapping induced by the kernel. By minimizing the MMD distance during training, the model
learns a feature representation where the source and target domains are statistically aligned, enabling the classifier or
regressor trained on the source domain to generalize well to the target domain. This alignment is particularly crucial for
extreme-event forecasting, as it ensures that the learned predictor is robust to the feature-space shift between normal
and extreme-event regimes.

3. Proposed Method
This section presents the construction of TL-QLDMR. Necessary notation is introduced first, followed by the final
objective function integrating structural risk, distribution variance, domain adaptation, and weighted pinball loss. The
constraints required to handle the non-differentiability of the quantile loss are then described.

3.1. Notations
Consider the problem of wind power forecasting under extreme events. The source domain is denoted by
𝑛

𝑆
𝐷𝑆 = {(𝒙𝑆,𝑖 , 𝑦𝑆,𝑖 )}𝑖=1
and contains abundant normal-operating samples, while the target domain is denoted by

𝑛

𝑇
𝐷𝑇 = {(𝒙𝑇 ,𝑗 , 𝑦𝑇 ,𝑗 )}𝑗=1
and contains scarce extreme-event samples. The input space  ⊆ ℝ𝑑 represents feature vectors

constructed via sliding window processing, and the output space  ⊆ ℝ represents wind power. The sample sizes
satisfy 𝑛𝑇 ≪ 𝑛𝑆 .
Due to drastic meteorological changes during extreme events, the joint distributions differ significantly: 𝑃𝑆 (𝑿 𝑆 , 𝒀 𝑆 ) ≠
𝑃𝑇 (𝑿 𝑇 , 𝒀 𝑇 ). This distribution discrepancy implies that a model trained solely on 𝑃𝑆 will fail on 𝑃𝑇 . A feature mapping
𝜙 ∶  →  is used to map the input to a high-dimensional Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space (RKHS). The prediction
model is defined as
𝑓 (𝒙) = 𝒘𝑇 𝜙(𝒙) + 𝑏,

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

(5)

Page 6 of 31

where 𝒘 is the weight vector and 𝑏 is the bias. The quantile 𝜏 ∈ (0, 1) is set to a specific value (e.g., 𝜏 = 0.95) for
interval prediction (e.g., predicting the upper bound). Unless otherwise noted, 𝑘(⋅, ⋅) denotes the scalar kernel function,
𝑲 denotes the Gram matrix, 𝜙(⋅) denotes the implicit RKHS mapping used in the exact kernel formulation, and 𝜓(⋅)
denotes the explicit Nyström feature map used only in the scalable primal solver.

3.2. TL-QLDMR Model Formulation
The overall architecture of the proposed TL-QLDMR model is illustrated in Fig. 1. The left column presents
a five-stage pipeline progressing from cross-domain data preparation through supervised transfer, quantile-aware
objective construction, scalable optimization, to forecast outputs. In the supervised transfer stage, a shared kernel
representation 𝜙(𝐱)/𝜓(𝐱) branches into two complementary adaptation paths: feature-space alignment via MMD in
RKHS and label-space adaptation via target-weighted pinball loss. The quantile-aware objective integrates four terms—
structural risk, asymmetric distribution variance, MMD-based domain adaptation, and weighted pinball loss—into a
unified formulation. The optimization stage supports both an exact dual QP solver and a scalable Nyström-SGD solver,
ultimately producing point forecasts and probabilistic prediction intervals.

3.2.1. Objective Function
Our optimization goal is to find the optimal 𝒘, 𝑏 and slack variables 𝝃, 𝝃 ∗ to minimize the following objective
∑𝑛 𝑆
function 𝐽 . Let 𝑢̄ 𝑆 = 𝑛1 𝑖=1
(𝑦𝑆,𝑖 − 𝑓 (𝒙𝑆,𝑖 )) denote the mean residual over the source domain, which is treated as a
𝑆
scalar constant during optimization
min

𝒘,𝑏,𝝃,𝝃 ∗

𝐽=

1
‖𝒘‖2
2
⏟⏟⏟
(1) Structural Risk
𝑛𝑆

+ 𝜆1

∑(
)2
(𝑦𝑆,𝑖 − 𝒘𝑇 𝜙(𝒙𝑆,𝑖 ) − 𝑏) − 𝑢̄ 𝑆
𝑖=1

⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟
(2) Distribution Variance

‖ ∑
‖2
𝑛
𝑛𝑇
‖ 1 𝑆
‖
1 ∑
‖
+ 𝜆2 ‖
𝜙(𝒙𝑆,𝑖 ) −
𝜙(𝒙𝑇 ,𝑗 )‖
‖
𝑛𝑇 𝑗=1
‖ 𝑛𝑆 𝑖=1
‖
‖
‖
⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟

(6)

(3) Domain Adaptation
𝑛𝑆

+ 𝐶𝑆

∑

𝐿𝜏 (𝑦𝑆,𝑖 , 𝑓 (𝒙𝑆,𝑖 )) + 𝐶𝑇

𝑖=1

𝑛𝑇
∑

𝐿𝜏 (𝑦𝑇 ,𝑗 , 𝑓 (𝒙𝑇 ,𝑗 )),

𝑗=1

⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟
(4) Weighted Pinball Loss

the physical meaning of each term is as follows:
(1) Structural Risk: This term controls the complexity of the model and prevents overfitting, embodying the
maximum margin principle of SVM.
(2) Distribution Variance: This term is the core of our proposed Quantile LDMR model, incorporating a critical
modification to the original LDMR variance.
• Theoretical Conflict: The original LDMR minimizes the variance of residuals, which implicitly encourages a symmetric, concentrated error distribution around zero. However, quantile regression at level 𝜏 ≠ 0.5
requires an asymmetric residual distribution where approximately 𝜏 proportion of errors are negative.
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 7 of 31

Source domain DS
Normal operation
samples

Cross-Domain
Data

Target domain DT
Extreme-event
samples

Windowed covariates
W = 24, meteorology,
power history

Sample imbalance: nT ≪ nS

Shared kernel representation ϕ(x) / ψ(x)
Supervised
Transfer

Label-space adaptation
Target-weighted
pinball loss

Feature-space alignment
MMD in RKHS

J = RSR + λ1 RDV + λ2 RDA + RQ
Quantile-Aware
Objective

RSR
Structural Risk

Scalable
Optimization

Forecast
Outputs

+

RDV
Distribution
Variance

Exact dual solver
Quadratic programming

+

RDA
Domain
Adaptation

Scalable solver
Nyström + SGD

Point forecast

+

RQ
Weighted
Pinball Loss

Complexity reduction
O(N 3 ) →
O(T · N · m)

Prediction interval

Fig. 1: Overall architecture of the proposed TL-QLDMR model. The left column shows the five-stage pipeline: cross-domain data
preparation, supervised transfer learning, quantile-aware objective construction, scalable optimization, and forecast outputs. Each
stage is elaborated in the corresponding right panel. In the supervised transfer stage, the shared kernel representation branches
into feature-space alignment via MMD in RKHS and label-space adaptation via target-weighted pinball loss (indicated by dashed
arrows). The quantile-aware objective decomposes into four additive terms: structural risk 𝑅SR , distribution variance 𝑅DV , domain
adaptation 𝑅DA , and weighted pinball loss 𝑅Q . The optimization stage provides both an exact dual QP solver and a scalable NyströmSGD solver with complexity reduction from 𝑂(𝑁 3 ) to 𝑂(𝑇 ⋅ 𝑁 ⋅ 𝑚). The final outputs include deterministic point forecasts and
probabilistic prediction intervals.

Applying a symmetric variance penalty would force the residual distribution towards symmetry, degrading
the skewness required for accurate quantile estimation.
• Asymmetric Modification: To resolve this, we employ an asymmetric variance regularization based on
the algebraic residuals. This design allows the model to reduce error dispersion without constraining the
distribution’s direction, thereby preserving the non-symmetric properties essential for the Pinball Loss and
improving interval coverage.
(3) Domain Adaptation (MMD): This term aligns source and target feature distributions in RKHS by minimizing
mean-embedding discrepancy. This alignment ensures that the learned predictor is robust to the feature-space
shift between normal and extreme-event regimes. MMD is chosen because it is non-parametric, computationally
tractable, and directly compatible with kernelized optimization.
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 8 of 31

(4) Weighted Pinball Loss: This term performs label-space adaptation under sample imbalance. Unlike purely
unsupervised alignment, the objective explicitly includes target-domain labels:
• Label-supervised correction: extreme-event target labels constrain the model in regions where sourcedomain trends are no longer reliable (e.g., high wind speed under cut-out operation).
• Imbalance-aware weighting: by setting 𝐶𝑇 ≫ 𝐶𝑆 , prediction errors on scarce target samples receive
stronger penalties, preventing optimization from being dominated by abundant source samples.

3.2.2. Constraints
To handle the non-differentiability of the pinball loss, we introduce slack variables 𝜉𝑘 , 𝜉𝑘∗ to transform it into linear
constraints. These constraints apply uniformly to all samples 𝑘 in the combined training set 𝐷 = 𝐷𝑆 ∪ 𝐷𝑇 , while
domain-specific weighting is handled through 𝐶𝑆 and 𝐶𝑇 in the objective function
⎧
⎪𝑦𝑘 − (𝒘𝑇 𝜙(𝒙𝑘 ) + 𝑏) ≤ 𝜉𝑘 ,
⎪ 𝑇
⎨(𝒘 𝜙(𝒙𝑘 ) + 𝑏) − 𝑦𝑘 ≤ 𝜉𝑘∗ ,
⎪
⎪𝜉𝑘 ≥ 0, 𝜉𝑘∗ ≥ 0
⎩

∀𝑘 ∈ {1, … , 𝑛𝑆 + 𝑛𝑇 }
∀𝑘 ∈ {1, … , 𝑛𝑆 + 𝑛𝑇 } ,

(7)

in the objective function, the term 𝐿𝜏 (𝑦𝑘 , 𝑓 (𝒙𝑘 )) corresponds to 𝜏𝜉𝑘 + (1 − 𝜏)𝜉𝑘∗ .

3.3. Model Optimization
This section derives the dual problem of TL-QLDMR to enable efficient solution via Quadratic Programming (QP).

3.3.1. Matrix Reformulation of the Primal Problem
To facilitate the derivation, the variance term and the MMD term in the objective function [Eq. (6)] are rewritten
using matrix traces or norms. Let 𝑋 = [𝑿 𝑆 , 𝑿 𝑇 ] denote the entire training set with 𝑁 = 𝑛𝑆 + 𝑛𝑇 samples. For
consistency with standard derivations, a coefficient of 1∕2 is added to the variance and MMD terms. The primal
objective can be reformulated as
min ∗

𝒘,𝑏,𝝃,𝝃

𝑁
∑
𝜆
𝜆
1
𝐶𝑘 𝐿𝜏 (𝑦𝑘 , 𝑓 (𝒙𝑘 )),
‖𝒘‖2 + 1 Var𝑆 (𝒘, 𝑏) + 2 MMD2 (𝒘) +
2
2
2
𝑘=1

(8)

where 𝐶𝑘 takes value 𝐶𝑆 if sample 𝑘 ∈ 𝐷𝑆 and 𝐶𝑇 if 𝑘 ∈ 𝐷𝑇 .
Two auxiliary matrices are introduced to express the variance and MMD terms in Eq. (8) as quadratic forms of the
weights:
(1) Variance Matrix 𝐒: To represent the source-domain variance

∑

2
𝑖∈𝐷𝑆 (𝑦𝑆,𝑖 −𝑓 (𝒙𝑆,𝑖 )− 𝑢̄ 𝑆 ) , we define a centering
1
𝑇
matrix 𝑯 𝑆 = 𝑰 𝑛𝑆 − 𝑛 𝟏𝑛𝑆 𝟏𝑛 . The variance term can be written as ‖𝑯 𝑆 (𝒚 𝑆 − 𝒇 𝑆 )‖2 . To extend this to the full
𝑆
𝑆

dataset, we define an 𝑁 × 𝑁 matrix 𝐒

𝐒=

Junlin Chen et al.:

[
𝑯𝑆

]
𝟎

𝟎

𝟎

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

.

(9)

Page 9 of 31

(2) MMD Matrix 𝐌: The MMD term represents the distance between means. We define the MMD coefficient
matrix 𝐌 ∈ ℝ𝑁×𝑁 as

⎧1
⎪ 𝑛2𝑆
⎪
𝑀𝑖𝑗 = ⎨ 12
𝑛
⎪ 𝑇
⎪ −1
⎩ 𝑛𝑆 𝑛𝑇

𝑖, 𝑗 ∈ 𝐷𝑆
(10)

𝑖, 𝑗 ∈ 𝐷𝑇 .
otherwise

3.3.2. Representer Theorem and Kernelization
According to the representer theorem (Schölkopf et al. (2001)), the optimal weight vector 𝒘 lies in the span of
the feature mappings of the training samples. Note that the representer theorem applies here because all regularization
terms (structural risk, variance, and MMD) can be expressed as functions of inner products in RKHS, preserving the
kernel structure. Therefore
𝑁
∑
𝛽𝑖 𝜙(𝒙𝑖 ) = 𝚽𝜷,
(11)
𝒘=
𝑖=1

where 𝚽 = [𝜙(𝒙1 ), … , 𝜙(𝒙𝑁 )] is the feature matrix and 𝜷 = [𝛽1 , … , 𝛽𝑁 ]𝑇 are the coefficients. Substituting Eq. (11)
into the prediction function, we get 𝑓 (𝑿) = 𝜷 𝑇 𝑲 + 𝑏𝟏𝑇 , where 𝑲 = 𝚽𝑇 𝚽 is the 𝑁 × 𝑁 kernel matrix. Consequently,
using Eq. (9) and Eq. (10), the structural risk, variance, and MMD terms can be expressed in terms of 𝜷:
• Structural Risk: ‖𝒘‖2 = 𝜷 𝑇 𝑲𝜷.
• Distribution Variance: The quadratic part with respect to 𝜷 is 𝜷 𝑇 𝑲𝐒𝑲𝜷. Note that the bias 𝑏 is eliminated by
the centering matrix 𝑯 𝑆 .
• Domain Adaptation (MMD): MMD2 (𝒘) = 𝜷 𝑇 𝑲𝐌𝑲𝜷.
Combining these, we define the total coefficient matrix 𝛀
(12)

𝛀 = 𝑲 + 𝜆1 𝑲𝐒𝑲 + 𝜆2 𝑲𝐌𝑲.

Remark 1. When 𝑲 is positive definite (which holds for common kernels such as RBF on distinct samples) and
𝜆1 , 𝜆2 > 0, the matrix 𝛀 is positive definite. This ensures that 𝛀 is invertible and the optimization problem is wellposed. The positive definiteness of 𝛀 also guarantees the strong convexity of the objective function, which is essential
for both the dual QP formulation and the convergence analysis of the scalable SGD algorithm.
By substituting the kernelized terms and Eq. (12) into Eq. (8), the kernelized primal problem becomes (ignoring
constant terms w.r.t 𝑏 in variance)
min ∗

𝜷,𝑏,𝝃,𝝃

𝑁
∑
1 𝑇
𝜷 𝛀𝜷 − (𝜆1 𝑲𝐒𝒀 )𝑇 𝜷 +
𝐶𝑘 (𝜏𝜉𝑘 + (1 − 𝜏)𝜉𝑘∗ ),
2
𝑘=1

(13)

(𝑲 𝑘 𝜷 + 𝑏) − 𝑦𝑘 ≤ 𝜉𝑘∗ ,

(14)

subject to the constraints from Eq. (7)
𝑦𝑘 − (𝑲 𝑘 𝜷 + 𝑏) ≤ 𝜉𝑘 ,

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

𝜉𝑘 , 𝜉𝑘∗ ≥ 0.

Page 10 of 31

3.3.3. Lagrangian and Dual Problem
We introduce Lagrange multipliers 𝛼𝑘 , 𝛼𝑘∗ , 𝜇𝑘 , 𝜇𝑘∗ ≥ 0 for Eq. (14). The Lagrangian function  is constructed as
𝑁
∑
1
𝐶𝑘 (𝜏𝜉𝑘 + (1 − 𝜏)𝜉𝑘∗ )
 = 𝜷 𝑇 𝛀𝜷 − (𝜆1 𝑲𝐒𝒀 )𝑇 𝜷 +
2
𝑘=1

−

𝑁
∑

𝛼𝑘 (𝜉𝑘 − 𝑦𝑘 + 𝑲 𝑘 𝜷 + 𝑏) −

𝑁
∑

𝛼𝑘∗ (𝜉𝑘∗ + 𝑦𝑘 − 𝑲 𝑘 𝜷 − 𝑏) −

∑
(𝜇𝑘 𝜉𝑘 + 𝜇𝑘∗ 𝜉𝑘∗ ),

(15)

𝑘=1

𝑘=1

by setting the partial derivatives of Eq. (15) with respect to the primal variables (𝑏, 𝝃, 𝝃 ∗ , 𝜷) to zero, along with the
complementary slackness and primal feasibility conditions, we obtain the KKT conditions
𝑁
∑
𝜕
(𝛼𝑘 − 𝛼𝑘∗ ) = 0
=0 ⟹
𝜕𝑏
𝑘=1

(16)

𝜕
𝜕
= 0, ∗ = 0 ⟹ 𝛼𝑘 ∈ [0, 𝐶𝑘 𝜏], 𝛼𝑘∗ ∈ [0, 𝐶𝑘 (1 − 𝜏)]
𝜕𝜉𝑘
𝜕𝜉𝑘
𝜕
= 0 ⟹ 𝛀𝜷 − 𝜆1 𝑲𝐒𝒀 − 𝑲(𝜶 − 𝜶 ∗ ) = 0,
𝜕𝜷

(17)
(18)

let 𝜸 = 𝜶 − 𝜶 ∗ . From Eq. (18), the optimal 𝜷 is derived as
(19)

𝜷 = 𝛀−1 (𝑲𝜸 + 𝜆1 𝑲𝐒𝒀 ).

Substituting Eq. (19) back into Eq. (15), and simplifying using Eq. (16) and Eq. (17), we arrive at the dual Problem,
which is a standard Quadratic Programming (QP) problem
min∗
𝜶,𝜶

s.t.

1
(𝜶 − 𝜶 ∗ )𝑇 𝐐𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙 (𝜶 − 𝜶 ∗ ) + 𝐩𝑇𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙 (𝜶 − 𝜶 ∗ )
2
𝑁
∑

(𝛼𝑘 − 𝛼𝑘∗ ) = 0

,

𝑘=1

0 ≤ 𝛼𝑘 ≤ 𝐶𝑘 𝜏,

(20)

∀𝑘

0 ≤ 𝛼𝑘∗ ≤ 𝐶𝑘 (1 − 𝜏),

∀𝑘

where the dual matrix 𝐐𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙 and vector 𝐩𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙 are defined as
𝐐𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙 = 𝑲𝛀−1 𝑲,

𝐩𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙 = 𝜆1 𝑲𝛀−1 𝑲𝐒𝒀 − 𝒀 .

(21)

Once the optimal 𝜶, 𝜶 ∗ are found using a QP solver for Eq. (20), we can recover 𝜷 using Eq. (19) and construct
the final decision function 𝑓 (𝒙).

3.4. The Algorithm and Complexity Analysis
The complete training process of the proposed TL-QLDMR model is summarized in Algorithm 1. The algorithm
mainly consists of matrix construction and solving a QP problem.
The computational complexity of TL-QLDMR primarily stems from three parts: matrix multiplication, matrix
inversion, and the QP solver.

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 11 of 31

Algorithm 1: TL-QLDMR Training Algorithm
𝑛

𝑛

𝑆
𝑇
Input : Source Data 𝐷𝑆 = {(𝒙𝑆,𝑖 , 𝑦𝑆,𝑖 )}𝑖=1
, Target Data 𝐷𝑇 = {(𝒙𝑇 ,𝑗 , 𝑦𝑇 ,𝑗 )}𝑗=1
, Quantile 𝜏, Kernel
parameters, Regularization parameters 𝜆1 , 𝜆2 , Pinball Loss weights 𝐶𝑆 , 𝐶𝑇 .
Output: Optimal dual variables 𝜶, 𝜶 ∗ and bias 𝑏.
// Step 1: Data Preparation
1 Combine Source and Target data: 𝑿 = [𝑿 𝑆 , 𝑿 𝑇 ], 𝒀 = [𝒀 𝑆 ; 𝒀 𝑇 ], 𝑁 = 𝑛𝑆 + 𝑛𝑇 ;
𝑁
2 Set weights vector 𝑪 ∈ ℝ where 𝐶𝑘 = 𝐶𝑆 for 𝑘 ≤ 𝑛𝑆 and 𝐶𝑇 otherwise;
// Step 2: Matrix Construction
𝑁×𝑁 using the specified kernel function;
3 Compute Kernel Matrix 𝑲 ∈ ℝ
4 Construct Variance Matrix 𝐒 using Eq. (9);
5 Construct MMD Matrix 𝐌 using Eq. (10);
// Step 3: Dual Problem Formulation
6 Compute coefficient matrix 𝛀 = 𝑲 + 𝜆1 𝑲𝐒𝑲 + 𝜆2 𝑲𝐌𝑲 using Eq. (12);
7 Invert 𝛀 to fit the dual form;
−1
8 Compute Dual Matrix 𝐐𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙 = 𝑲𝛀 𝑲 using Eq. (21);
−1
9 Compute Dual Vector 𝐩𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙 = 𝜆1 𝑲𝛀 𝑲𝐒𝒀 − 𝒀 using Eq. (21);
// Step 4: Solve QP
∗
10 Solve the QP problem in Eq. (20) providing 𝐐𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙 , 𝐩𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙 , and constraints 0 ≤ 𝛼𝑘 ≤ 𝐶𝑘 𝜏, 0 ≤ 𝛼 ≤ 𝐶𝑘 (1 − 𝜏);
𝑘
∗
11 Return Optimal 𝜶, 𝜶 ;
// Step 5: Recover Primal Variables
∗
12 Compute 𝜸 = 𝜶 − 𝜶 ;
13 Recover 𝜷 using Eq. (19);
14 Compute bias 𝑏 using complementary slackness conditions (averaged over Support Vectors);

(1) Matrix Operations: The construction of 𝑲, 𝐒, and 𝐌 involves 𝑂(𝑁 2 𝑑) or 𝑂(𝑁 2 ) operations. The calculation
of 𝛀 involves matrix multiplications of size 𝑁 ×𝑁, leading to a complexity of 𝑂(𝑁 3 ) in the worst case for dense
kernel matrices.
(2) Matrix Inversion: Inverting the 𝑁 × 𝑁 matrix 𝛀 requires 𝑂(𝑁 3 ) complexity in the worst case.
(3) QP Solver: Solving the standard Quadratic Programming problem for the dual variables typically has a
complexity ranging from 𝑂(𝑁 2.3 ) to 𝑂(𝑁 3 ) depending on the solver implementation (e.g., Interior Point
Method).
Therefore, the overall time complexity of the proposed algorithm is approximately 𝑂(𝑁 3 ) in the worst case. Given
that 𝑁 = 𝑛𝑆 + 𝑛𝑇 and 𝑛𝑇 ≪ 𝑛𝑆 , the scale is dominated by the source-domain sample size. While this complexity
is acceptable for moderate-sized datasets, it becomes prohibitive for large-scale wind power forecasting scenarios
involving tens of thousands of samples. To overcome this computational bottleneck and enable practical deployment
in real-world wind farm applications, we develop a scalable optimization algorithm in the following subsection.

3.5. Scalable Optimization via Nyström Approximation
To address the computational bottleneck of the standard QP-based solver, we propose a scalable Nyström-SGD
algorithm. This approach reduces the time complexity from 𝑂(𝑁 3 ) to 𝑂(𝑇 ⋅ 𝑁 ⋅ 𝑚), where 𝑇 denotes the number of
iterations and 𝑚 ≪ 𝑁 is the number of landmark points.

3.5.1. Nyström Feature Mapping
The core idea is to approximate the implicit infinite-dimensional feature mapping 𝜙(𝒙) with an explicit finitedimensional representation. Given the training data, we first select 𝑚 landmark points 𝑍 = {𝑧1 , … , 𝑧𝑚 } from the source

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 12 of 31

domain 𝐷𝑆 using K-Means clustering to capture the underlying data manifold, following the rationale of clustered
Nyström landmark selection (Zhang & Kwok, 2010).
Let 𝑾 ∈ ℝ𝑚×𝑚 denote the kernel matrix of landmarks, where 𝑊𝑖𝑗 = 𝑘(𝑧𝑖 , 𝑧𝑗 ). The explicit feature mapping
𝜓 ∶  → ℝ𝑚 is then constructed as
(22)

𝜓(𝒙) = 𝑾 −1∕2 [𝑘(𝒙, 𝑧1 ), … , 𝑘(𝒙, 𝑧𝑚 )]𝑇 ,

where 𝑾 −1∕2 is computed via eigendecomposition. This mapping satisfies the approximation property 𝑘(𝒙𝑖 , 𝒙𝑗 ) ≈
𝜓(𝒙𝑖 )𝑇 𝜓(𝒙𝑗 ), enabling us to work directly in the primal space.

3.5.2. Primal Formulation with Explicit Features
With the explicit feature mapping, the prediction function becomes 𝑓 (𝒙) = 𝒘𝑇 𝜓(𝒙) + 𝑏, where 𝒘 ∈ ℝ𝑚 . Let
𝚿𝑆 ∈ ℝ𝑛𝑆 ×𝑚 and 𝚿𝑇 ∈ ℝ𝑛𝑇 ×𝑚 denote the mapped feature matrices for source and target domains, respectively. The
regularization matrix 𝑹 ∈ ℝ𝑚×𝑚 incorporating structural risk, variance, and MMD terms is formulated as
(23)

𝑹 = 𝑰 + 𝜆1 𝚿𝑇𝑆 𝑯 𝑆 𝚿𝑆 +𝜆2 (𝝍̄ 𝑆 − 𝝍̄ 𝑇 )(𝝍̄ 𝑆 − 𝝍̄ 𝑇 )𝑇 ,
⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟
⏟⏞⏞⏞⏟⏞⏞⏞⏟
MMD

Variance

where 𝑯 𝑆 = 𝑰 𝑛𝑆 − 𝑛1 𝟏𝑛𝑆 𝟏𝑇𝑛 is the centering matrix, and 𝝍̄ 𝑆 , 𝝍̄ 𝑇 are the mean feature vectors of source and target

domains.

𝑆

𝑆

3.5.3. Stochastic Gradient Descent Optimization
Instead of solving the dual QP problem, we directly optimize the primal objective using the Nyström-SGD
procedure. For each sample 𝑘 in a mini-batch , the sub-gradient of the Pinball Loss with respect to the prediction is
⎧
𝜕𝐿𝜏 ⎪𝜏 − 1,
=⎨
𝑔𝑘 =
𝜕 𝑦̂𝑘
⎪𝜏,
⎩

if 𝑦𝑘 < 𝑦̂𝑘

(24)

if 𝑦𝑘 ≥ 𝑦̂𝑘 .

The weighted sub-gradient is computed as 𝑔̃𝑘 = 𝐶𝑘 ⋅𝑔𝑘 , where 𝐶𝑘 ∈ {𝐶𝑆 , 𝐶𝑇 } depends on the domain membership.
The parameter gradients are then
∇𝒘 𝐽 =

1 ∑
𝑔̃ 𝜓(𝒙𝑘 ) + 𝑹𝒘,
|| 𝑘∈ 𝑘

∇𝑏 𝐽 =

1 ∑
𝑔̃ .
|| 𝑘∈ 𝑘

(25)

The complete training procedure is summarized in Algorithm 2.

3.5.4. Complexity Analysis of the Scalable Algorithm
The proposed scalable algorithm achieves significant computational savings:
(1) Landmark Selection: K-Means clustering requires 𝑂(𝑁 ⋅ 𝑚 ⋅ 𝐼𝑘𝑚 ) operations, where 𝐼𝑘𝑚 is the number of
K-Means iterations.
(2) Feature Mapping: Computing 𝑾 −1∕2 costs 𝑂(𝑚3 ), and mapping all 𝑁 samples requires 𝑂(𝑁 ⋅ 𝑚 ⋅ 𝑑).
(3) Regularization Matrix: Constructing 𝑹 involves 𝑂(𝑛𝑆 ⋅ 𝑚2 ) for the variance term and 𝑂(𝑚2 ) for the MMD
term.

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 13 of 31

Algorithm 2: TL-QLDMR via Nyström-SGD
Input : Source data 𝐷𝑆 , Target data 𝐷𝑇 , Number of landmarks 𝑚, Quantile 𝜏, Hyperparameters
𝜆1 , 𝜆2 , 𝐶𝑆 , 𝐶𝑇 , Learning rate 𝜂, Batch size 𝐵, Max iterations 𝑇 .
Output: Optimal weights 𝒘 ∈ ℝ𝑚 and bias 𝑏 ∈ ℝ.
// Step 1: Nyström Feature Mapping
1 Select 𝑚 landmarks 𝑍 = {𝑧1 , … , 𝑧𝑚 } from 𝐷𝑆 via K-Means;
𝑚×𝑚 ;
2 Compute landmark kernel matrix 𝑾 ∈ ℝ
−1∕2
3 Compute 𝑾
via eigendecomposition;
4 Construct explicit features 𝜓(𝒙) for all samples using Eq. (22);
// Step 2: Pre-compute Regularization Matrix
̄ 𝑆 , 𝝍̄ 𝑇 ;
5 Compute feature matrices 𝚿𝑆 , 𝚿𝑇 and mean vectors 𝝍
6 Construct regularization matrix 𝑹 using Eq. (23);
// Step 3: Stochastic Optimization
7 Initialize 𝒘 ← 𝟎, 𝑏 ← 0;
8 for 𝑡 = 1 to 𝑇 do
9
Shuffle combined dataset 𝐷 = 𝐷𝑆 ∪ 𝐷𝑇 ;
10
for each mini-batch  ⊂ 𝐷 do
11
Compute predictions: 𝑦̂𝑘 = 𝒘𝑇 𝜓(𝒙𝑘 ) + 𝑏, ∀𝑘 ∈ ;
12
Compute sub-gradients 𝑔𝑘 using Eq. (24);
13
Apply sample weights: 𝑔̃𝑘 ← 𝐶𝑘 ⋅ 𝑔𝑘 ;
14
Compute gradients ∇𝒘 𝐽 , ∇𝑏 𝐽 using Eq. (25);
15
Update 𝒘, 𝑏 using the stochastic gradient step with learning rate 𝜂;
16
end
17 end
18 return 𝒘, 𝑏;

Table 1
Complexity comparison between standard QP and scalable algorithm

Component

Standard QP

Scalable (Ours)

Kernel/Feature Computation
Matrix Inversion
Optimization

𝑂(𝑁 2 𝑑)
𝑂(𝑁 3 )
𝑂(𝑁 3 )

𝑂(𝑁𝑚𝑑)
𝑂(𝑚3 )
𝑂(𝑇 𝑁𝑚)

Total

𝑂(𝑁 3 )

𝑂(𝑇 𝑁𝑚 + 𝑚3 )

(4) SGD Iterations: Each iteration processes 𝑂(𝑁) samples with 𝑂(𝑚) operations per sample, yielding 𝑂(𝑇 ⋅ 𝑁 ⋅ 𝑚)
total complexity.

√
The overall time complexity is 𝑂(𝑇 ⋅𝑁 ⋅𝑚+𝑚3 ). Since 𝑚 ≪ 𝑁 (typically 𝑚 = 𝑂( 𝑁)), this represents a substantial
reduction from the 𝑂(𝑁 3 ) complexity of the standard QP solver. Table 1 summarizes the comparison between the two
algorithms.

3.5.5. Theoretical Justification
The convergence of the proposed Nyström-SGD algorithm is guaranteed under standard assumptions. Since the
Pinball Loss is convex and Lipschitz continuous, and the regularization term 12 𝒘𝑇 𝑹𝒘 is strongly convex (as 𝑹 inherits
positive definiteness from 𝛀 when 𝜆1 , 𝜆2 > 0), the overall objective function is strongly convex. According to the
convergence theory of SGD for strongly convex functions (Bottou et al., 2018), the algorithm converges to the global
optimum at a rate of 𝑂(1∕𝑇 ).
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 14 of 31

̃ 𝑖 , 𝒙𝑗 ) = 𝜓(𝒙𝑖 )𝑇 𝜓(𝒙𝑗 ) denote the approximated
Furthermore, the Nyström approximation error is bounded. Let 𝑘(𝒙
kernel. Standard analyses of the Nyström method show that the approximation error decreases with the number of
landmarks under suitable spectral assumptions and sampling schemes (Kumar et al., 2012; Zhang & Kwok, 2010). A
representative order characterization is
[
]
̃ 𝐹 ≤𝑂
𝔼 ‖𝑲 − 𝑲‖

(

𝑁
√
𝑚

)
(26)

,

this bound ensures that with a sufficient number of landmarks, the approximation quality is well-controlled, and the
solution obtained by the scalable algorithm closely approximates that of the exact QP solver.

4. Experiments
In this section, we conduct a comprehensive experimental evaluation of the proposed TL-QLDMR model for
wind power forecasting in the extreme-event domain. The experiments are organized into five progressive stages:
(1) extreme-event sample screening and domain shift quantification across multiple wind farms (Section 4.5); (2)
deterministic point prediction comparison on the wind farm exhibiting the most severe distribution shift (Section 4.6);
(3) probabilistic interval prediction evaluation under a 95% confidence level (Section 4.7); (4) ablation study to
validate the contribution of each core component (Section 4.8); and (5) scalable optimization validation to assess
the computational efficiency of the proposed Nyström-SGD solver (Section 4.9).

4.1. Dataset Description
The experiments are conducted on a publicly available wind farm SCADA dataset published by the State Grid
Renewable Energy Generation Dataset (Chen & Xu, 2022). The dataset contains supervisory control and data
acquisition records from six onshore wind farms with nominal capacities ranging from 36 MW to 200 MW. Each
record is sampled at 15-minute intervals and includes the following meteorological and operational variables:
• Wind speed at multiple heights: hub height, 50 m, 30 m, and 10 m (m/s);
• Wind direction at hub height (degrees);
• Air temperature (◦ C);
• Atmospheric pressure (hPa);
• Relative humidity (%);
• Active power output (MW).
Table 2 summarizes the basic characteristics of the six wind farms. Each farm contains approximately 70,000
time-stamped records spanning multiple years of continuous operation.

4.2. Feature Engineering and Data Preprocessing
The feature set comprises multi-height wind speeds, air temperature, atmospheric pressure, relative humidity, and
cyclically encoded wind direction. Specifically, the raw wind direction angle 𝜃 is transformed into two orthogonal
components sin(𝜃) and cos(𝜃) to eliminate the discontinuity at the 0◦ ∕360◦ boundary, which is a well-established
practice in meteorological feature engineering (Wang et al., 2021).
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 15 of 31

Table 2
Summary of wind farm sites used in the experiments.

Farm ID

Site Name

Nominal Capacity (MW)

Total Samples

1
2
3
4
5
6

Wind farm site 1
Wind farm site 2
Wind farm site 3
Wind farm site 4
Wind farm site 5
Wind farm site 6

99
200
99
66
36
96

∼70,000
∼70,000
∼70,000
∼70,000
∼70,000
∼70,000

A sliding window of length 𝑊 = 24 (corresponding to a 6-hour lookback horizon at 15-minute resolution) is
applied to construct supervised learning samples. This choice provides sufficient short-term temporal context to capture
local persistence and ramping behavior, while avoiding the excessive input dimensionality and redundancy that longer
windows may introduce in kernel-based models. For each window, the feature matrix 𝑿 𝑡 ∈ ℝ𝑊 ×𝑑 is flattened into
a vector 𝒙𝑡 ∈ ℝ𝑊 𝑑 , and the target variable 𝑦𝑡 is the power output at the next time step. All features and the target
variable are standardized to zero mean and unit variance using statistics computed from the training set. Missing
values are imputed with the per-feature mean to ensure numerical stability for kernel-based models.

4.3. Extreme-Event Domain Definition
A critical prerequisite for evaluating transfer learning under extreme conditions is the rigorous definition of
what constitutes an “extreme event” in wind power forecasting (Sideratos & Hatziargyriou, 2012; Liu et al., 2024).
In this study, extreme events do not denote a single named meteorological subtype, such as typhoon, icing, or a
specific ramping pattern. Instead, they refer to a unified target domain composed of rare, high-risk, high-volatility,
and out-of-distribution operating states induced by extreme meteorological deviations and their associated turbine
responses relative to the normal-operating domain, consistent with transfer-learning settings in which the source
and target domains differ through their marginal distributions and operational regimes (Pan & Yang, 2010; BenDavid et al., 2010). To construct this target domain, a physics-statistics hybrid screening strategy is adopted: physical
thresholding captures deterministic high-wind shutdown risk, whereas percentile-based rules identify statistically rare
meteorological deviations at each wind farm, following the broader logic of mixed rule-and-statistics criteria used in
recent extreme-event energy data studies (Liu et al., 2023). A sample is classified as belonging to the target domain if
it satisfies any of the following criteria:
(1) Statistical wind speed extreme: Hub-height wind speed exceeds the 98th percentile of the farm’s historical
distribution;
(2) Temperature extreme: Air temperature falls below the 2nd percentile or exceeds the 98th percentile;
(3) Cut-out wind speed: Hub-height wind speed exceeds 25 m/s, the typical cut-out threshold for modern wind
turbines.
The 25 m/s threshold is treated here as a nominal cut-out speed. Although the exact cut-out point may vary
slightly across turbine types, values around 25 m/s are widely used in wind turbine power-curve characterization as the
shutdown region associated with safety protection (Rabanal et al., 2019). This threshold is therefore sufficient to capture
the core methodological feature of high-wind-induced nonlinear shutdown risk. Notably, the power ramp criterion
(rapid power fluctuations exceeding 5% of nominal capacity per 15-minute interval) is deliberately excluded from the
extreme definition. This design choice avoids conflating control-induced power curtailment or dispatch adjustments
with genuinely weather-driven anomalies.
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 16 of 31

No further subdivision of extreme-event samples into multiple subclasses is attempted. This choice is deliberate
because extreme events are inherently scarce in realistic forecasting settings; splitting them into fine-grained categories
would substantially weaken the statistical support available for transfer learning and would turn a small-sample
problem into a near-few-shot problem, a difficulty also reported in recent extreme-condition wind power studies
(Liang et al., 2025). From the perspective of domain adaptation, these heterogeneous extreme states share the same
modeling characteristic: they are all out-of-distribution samples exhibiting elevated volatility, non-stationarity, and
clear deviation from normal operating patterns (Pan & Yang, 2010; Ben-David et al., 2010). The objective of TLQLDMR is therefore to learn a unified disturbance-robust adaptation mechanism rather than a separate submodel for
each rare event type. The union of the above three rules thus forms a single target domain that is physically interpretable,
statistically sufficient for model training, and consistent with the data-scarce nature of extreme-event forecasting. All
remaining samples constitute the normal-operating source domain.

4.4. Experimental Setup
For deterministic point prediction, we employ Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE),
and the Coefficient of Determination (𝑅2 ) as evaluation metrics. RMSE and MAE quantify the magnitude of prediction
errors, while 𝑅2 measures the proportion of variance explained by the model. For probabilistic interval prediction, we
adopt Prediction Interval Coverage Probability (PICP), Mean Prediction Interval Width (MPIW), Prediction Interval
Normalized Average Width (PINAW), Coverage Width-based Criterion (CWC), and Winkler Score. PICP measures
reliability (whether the interval achieves the target coverage), while MPIW and PINAW measure sharpness (how tight
the interval is). CWC is a composite metric that penalizes PINAW when PICP falls below the nominal coverage 1 − 𝛼,
and the Winkler Score combines interval width with a penalty proportional to the magnitude of coverage violations.
An ideal model achieves PICP ≥ 1 − 𝛼 with the smallest possible PINAW.
To quantify the distribution discrepancy between the normal-operating and extreme-event domains, we employ two
complementary metrics computed on both wind speed and power dimensions: the Wasserstein-1 distance (𝑊1 ), which
measures the minimum transportation cost to transform one distribution into the other, and the Kolmogorov–Smirnov
statistic (KS), which captures the supremum of the absolute difference between the empirical cumulative distribution
functions of the two domains.
The hyperparameters of TL-QLDMR are selected by validation-based tuning within each experiment. The searched
ranges are logarithmic grids for 𝜆1 and 𝜆2 from 10−6 to 106 , 𝐶𝑆 ∈ {0.05, 0.1, 0.2}, 𝐶𝑇 ∈ {50, 300, 1000}, and kernel
bandwidth 𝛾 ∈ {2−6 , … , 26 }. The Nyström-SGD solver is tuned over landmark size 𝑚 ∈ [800, 1500], learning rate in
{0.005, 0.01}, and training epochs in [48, 80], with mini-batch size fixed at 256. All experiments are implemented
in Python and executed on a GPU server equipped with eight NVIDIA Tesla V100-SXM2-32GB GPUs (32 GB
memory per GPU), using NVIDIA driver version 550.54.15 and CUDA 12.4. All random splits use a fixed seed for
reproducibility.

4.5. Experiment 1: Extreme-Event Sample Screening and Domain Shift Quantification
The first experiment identifies extreme-event samples across all six wind farms using the criteria in Section 4.3,
and then quantifies source-target distribution shift for each farm. Table 3 reports the domain-shift statistics sorted by
the composite Wasserstein distance 𝑊1 (wind) + 𝑊1 (power). Preliminary sensitivity checks show that a stricter 99thpercentile wind-speed rule leaves too few target-domain samples for stable model development, whereas the adopted
98th-percentile rule preserves event extremity while maintaining statistical sufficiency.
Fig. 2 visualizes the distribution shift between normal-operating and extreme-event domains for all six wind farms.
Each subplot displays the kernel density estimates of wind speed (upper panel) and power output (lower panel) for both
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 17 of 31

Table 3
Domain shift metrics between normal-operating and extreme-event domains across six wind farms. Farms are sorted by the
composite Wasserstein distance in descending order.

Wind Farm
Farm 6 (96 MW)
Farm 3 (99 MW)
Farm 2 (200 MW)
Farm 5 (36 MW)
Farm 4 (66 MW)
Farm 1 (99 MW)

Extreme-Event Samples
4,144
4,144
4,211
3,039
4,046
4,184

𝑊1 (Wind)

𝑊1 (Power)

KS(Wind)

KS(Power)

4.060
3.389
3.467
4.195
4.235
3.140

21.057
18.915
16.166
9.851
7.759
5.964

0.389
0.338
0.333
0.460
0.347
0.335

0.344
0.265
0.142
0.363
0.201
0.116

domains. The visual comparison confirms the quantitative findings in Table 3: Farm 6 exhibits the most pronounced
separation between the two distributions, particularly in the power dimension, where the extreme-event domain shows
a bimodal pattern with substantial mass near zero power (cut-out events) and high power (pre-cut-out high wind
conditions).
Several observations emerge from Table 3 and Fig. 2. First, all six farms exhibit non-trivial distribution shifts
between the normal-operating and extreme-event domains, with KS statistics ranging from 0.116 to 0.460, confirming
that extreme events induce statistically significant distributional changes in both wind speed and power output. Second,
the magnitude of the power distribution shift varies substantially across farms: Farm 6 exhibits a Wasserstein distance
of 21.057 in the power dimension, approximately 3.5 times that of Farm 1 (5.964). This disparity reflects differences
in turbine control strategies, terrain effects, and the local meteorological characteristics of each site.
Farm 6 (nominal capacity 96 MW) ranks first in the composite domain shift metric (𝑊1 (wind) + 𝑊1 (power) =
25.117), indicating the most pronounced distributional discrepancy between its normal-operating and extreme-event
regimes. Consequently, Farm 6 is selected as the target wind farm, providing the most stringent test bed for evaluating
the robustness of transfer learning methods under extreme-event conditions.

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 18 of 31

Fig. 2: Distribution shift visualization for all six wind farms. From left to right, top to bottom: Site 1 (99 MW), Site 2 (200 MW),
Site 3 (99 MW), Site 4 (66 MW), Site 5 (36 MW), and Site 6 (96 MW). Each subplot shows kernel density estimates of wind speed
(upper panel) and power output (lower panel) for the normal-operating (source) and extreme-event (target) domains. Site 6 exhibits
the most severe domain shift in the power dimension.

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 19 of 31

4.6. Experiment 2: Deterministic Point Prediction under Extreme Events
The second experiment evaluates deterministic point prediction on Farm 6 and compares TL-QLDMR with nine
baselines under the same data split and preprocessing protocol.
The data partition for Farm 6 is as follows:
• Source domain (normal operation): 66,009 samples;
• Target domain (extreme-event domain): 4,143 samples.
We compare TL-QLDMR against classical kernel baselines, robust kernel variants, and representative ensemble
methods for wind power forecasting:
Classical and robust kernel baselines:
(1) Standard SVR: Classical Support Vector Regression with RBF kernel and 𝜖-insensitive loss, serving as the
foundational kernel-based regression baseline;
(2) Standard LDMR: Large-margin Distribution Machine-based Regression with symmetric variance regularization, representing the direct predecessor of TL-QLDMR without transfer learning or asymmetric modifications;
(3) BLSSVR (Fu et al., 2023): A bounded-loss SVR-type regression model designed to improve robustness against
outliers and heavy-tailed disturbances.
Additional SVM variants:
(4) HHO-SVR (Houssein et al., 2025): Support Vector Regression with hyperparameters optimized by the Harris
Hawks Optimization metaheuristic;
(5) FLSVR (Meena et al., 2025): A functional iterative method for solving the Lagrangian dual of SVR, offering
improved convergence properties;
(6) ARA-SVR (Duan et al., 2025): SVR with Associated Road Analysis for feature selection, originally proposed
for short-term traffic flow prediction.
Ensemble methods:
(7) KMeans-GBT (Rizkallah, 2025): A two-stage model combining KMeans clustering with Gradient Boosted
Trees to capture heterogeneous input–output relationships;
(8) RF-WPF (Mustaffa & Sulaiman, 2025): A Random Forest model tailored for wind power forecasting with
optimized tree depth and feature subsampling;
(9) BRF-WPF (Chen & Shi, 2025): Broad Random Forest integrating Broad Learning System feature expansion
with Random Forest regression for short-term wind power prediction.
Table 4 and Figs. 3–7 jointly demonstrate that TL-QLDMR provides the most accurate and stable point forecasts
on the Farm 6 extreme-event test set. Several observations are noteworthy:
First, comparing TL-QLDMR against classical and robust kernel baselines reveals the value of the proposed
extensions. Standard SVR achieves moderate performance (RMSE = 8.564, 𝑅2 = 0.9413), establishing a solid baseline
for kernel-based regression. However, Standard LDMR, despite incorporating variance regularization for distributional
robustness, exhibits the weakest performance among kernel methods (RMSE = 10.692, 𝑅2 = 0.9085). BLSSVR,
although designed to improve robustness via bounded loss, improves only marginally over Standard LDMR (RMSE
= 10.273, 𝑅2 = 0.9155) and remains clearly inferior to Standard SVR and HHO-SVR. This pattern confirms our
theoretical analysis in Section 3: sample-wise robustness alone is insufficient in the cross-domain extreme-event setting
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 20 of 31

Table 4
Deterministic point prediction results on the extreme-event test set of Farm 6. Best results are highlighted in bold (similarly
hereinafter).

Model

RMSE

MAE

𝑅2

Kernel-based methods
Standard LDMR
BLSSVR
ARA-SVR
FLSVR
Standard SVR
HHO-SVR

10.692
10.273
9.246
8.794
8.564
7.603

6.327
6.140
5.954
6.301
5.537
5.530

0.9085
0.9155
0.9316
0.9381
0.9413
0.9537

Ensemble methods
BRF-WPF
KMeans-GBT
RF-WPF

9.719
9.620
7.967

6.870
6.695
5.344

0.9244
0.9259
0.9492

TL-QLDMR (Ours)

7.478

5.248

0.9557

(a) Standard LDMR

(b) BLSSVR

Standard-LDMR vs True (Wind farm site 6 (Nominal capacity-96MW)) | Local segment [0, 415)
True
Prediction

80
60
40

True
Prediction

80

Power (MW)

Power (MW)

BLSSVR vs True (Wind farm site 6 (Nominal capacity-96MW)) | Local segment [0, 415)

20

60
40
20

0

0
0

100

200

Time step (15 min)

300

400

0

100

200

Time step (15 min)

300

400

Fig. 3: Prediction comparison over selected temporal segments on the Farm 6 extreme-event test set (Part I).
(d) FLSVR

(c) ARA-SVR

ARA-SVR vs True (Wind farm site 6 (Nominal capacity-96MW)) | Local segment [0, 415)
True
Prediction

80
60
40

True
Prediction

80

Power (MW)

Power (MW)

FLSVR vs True (Wind farm site 6 (Nominal capacity-96MW)) | Local segment [0, 415)

20

60
40
20

0

0
0

100

200

Time step (15 min)

300

400

0

100

200

Time step (15 min)

300

400

Fig. 4: Prediction comparison over selected temporal segments on the Farm 6 extreme-event test set (Part II).

where (i) training and testing distributions differ substantially, and (ii) the model must adapt to target-domain dynamics.
The large performance gaps from Standard LDMR and BLSSVR to TL-QLDMR quantitatively validate the necessity
of jointly incorporating transfer learning and asymmetric variance regularization.
Second, TL-QLDMR improves on the strongest non-transfer baselines, including HHO-SVR and RF-WPF.
Relative to HHO-SVR, TL-QLDMR raises 𝑅2 from 0.9537 to 0.9557 and reduces RMSE from 7.603 to 7.478. It
also improves on RF-WPF, the strongest ensemble comparator, reducing RMSE from 7.967 to 7.478. Although the
numerical margin over HHO-SVR is moderate, it is obtained under the most severe domain-shift setting with only
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 21 of 31

(e) Standard SVR

(f) HHO-SVR

Standard-SVR vs True (Wind farm site 6 (Nominal capacity-96MW)) | Local segment [0, 415)

60
40

True
Prediction

80

Power (MW)

Power (MW)

100

True
Prediction

80

HHO-SVR vs True (Wind farm site 6 (Nominal capacity-96MW)) | Local segment [0, 415)

20

60
40
20

0

0
0

100

200

Time step (15 min)

300

400

0

100

200

Time step (15 min)

300

400

Fig. 5: Prediction comparison over selected temporal segments on the Farm 6 extreme-event test set (Part III).
(h) KMeans-GBT

(g) BRF-WPF

BRF-WPF vs True (Wind farm site 6 (Nominal capacity-96MW)) | Local segment [0, 415)
True
Prediction

80
60
40

True
Prediction

80

Power (MW)

Power (MW)

KMeans-GBT vs True (Wind farm site 6 (Nominal capacity-96MW)) | Local segment [0, 415)

20

60
40
20

0

0
0

100

200

Time step (15 min)

300

400

0

100

200

Time step (15 min)

300

400

Fig. 6: Prediction comparison over selected temporal segments on the Farm 6 extreme-event test set (Part IV).
(i) RF-WPF

(j) TL-QLDMR
TL-QLDMR vs True (Wind farm site 6 (Nominal capacity-96MW)) | Local segment [0, 415)

RF-WPF vs True (Wind farm site 6 (Nominal capacity-96MW)) | Local segment [0, 415)
True
Prediction

60
40

True
Prediction

80

Power (MW)

Power (MW)

80

20

60
40
20

0
0

100

200

Time step (15 min)

300

400

0
0

100

200

Time step (15 min)

300

400

Fig. 7: Prediction comparison over selected temporal segments on the Farm 6 extreme-event test set (Part V).

4,143 extreme-event samples. The segment-level evidence in Figs. 3–7 is consistent with the aggregate metrics: TLQLDMR tracks abrupt ramps and low-power transitions more closely, while weaker kernel baselines such as Standard
LDMR and BLSSVR show larger local deviations around rapid fluctuations.
Third, among baselines, HHO-SVR remains the most competitive kernel method, RF-WPF remains the strongest
non-kernel alternative, and BLSSVR does not translate its bounded-loss robustness into competitive cross-domain
accuracy under the present small-sample extreme-event regime. The observed gain of TL-QLDMR is consistent with
the combined effect of source-domain transfer, asymmetric target weighting, and cyclic wind-direction encoding.
Because many extreme-event periods contain near-zero power outputs, MAPE is numerically unstable and therefore
RMSE and 𝑅2 are treated as the principal deterministic indicators.
To assess the robustness of the models against measurement noise, which is prevalent in SCADA systems during
extreme events, we evaluate the point prediction performance by injecting Gaussian noise into both the training and

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 22 of 31

Table 5
Model performance (𝑅2 ) under varying SNR on the Farm 6 extreme-event test set.

Model

SNR = 30 dB

SNR = 40 dB

SNR = 60 dB

Kernel-based methods
Standard LDMR
BLSSVR
ARA-SVR
FLSVR
Standard SVR
HHO-SVR

0.9084
0.9121
0.9311
0.9380
0.9409
0.9442

0.9080
0.9146
0.9316
0.9381
0.9414
0.9438

0.9084
0.9154
0.9316
0.9381
0.9413
0.9437

Ensemble methods
BRF-WPF
KMeans-GBT
RF-WPF

0.9177
0.9209
0.9471

0.9250
0.9230
0.9485

0.9253
0.9262
0.9469

TL-QLDMR (Ours)

0.9584

0.9560

0.9603

testing input features at Signal-to-Noise Ratios SNR ∈ {60, 40, 30} dB. The 𝑅2 results under different noise levels are
summarized in Table 5.
The results confirm that TL-QLDMR consistently maintains the highest 𝑅2 across all noise levels, achieving
0.9584, 0.9560, and 0.9603 at SNR = 30, 40, and 60 dB, respectively. The strongest baseline under noisy inputs is
HHO-SVR, but it remains below TL-QLDMR at all three settings (𝑅2 = 0.9442, 0.9438, and 0.9437). BLSSVR remains
slightly better than Standard LDMR under noise (𝑅2 = 0.9121 vs. 0.9084 at SNR = 30 dB), but still trails the stronger
kernel baselines by a clear margin, again indicating that bounded-loss robustness alone does not resolve the crossdomain mismatch. Standard SVR demonstrates moderate robustness (𝑅2 = 0.9409 at SNR = 30 dB), outperforming
both Standard LDMR and BLSSVR but remaining substantially below TL-QLDMR. Among ensemble methods,
BRF-WPF exhibits the steepest degradation, indicating higher sensitivity to measurement perturbations. The transfer
learning framework, reinforced by asymmetric variance regularization, effectively mitigates overfitting to noisy target
samples and demonstrates the strongest noise resilience among all comparative models.

4.7. Experiment 3: Probabilistic Interval Prediction under Extreme Events
The third experiment extends evaluation from point prediction to probabilistic interval forecasting. The objective is
to verify whether TL-QLDMR can achieve reliable 95% prediction intervals while keeping interval width sufficiently
sharp under extreme-event volatility.
The interval prediction baselines are organized into two categories:
Kernel-based quantile and robust learning variants:
(1) Standard SVQR: Classical Support Vector Quantile Regression with pinball loss, serving as the foundational
kernel-based interval prediction baseline;
(2) TSVQR (Ye et al., 2023): Twin Support Vector Quantile Regression, which constructs separate hyperplanes for
upper and lower quantiles;
(3) UQSVM-SSVQR (Hazarika et al., 2023): A robust SVQR variant with truncated pinball loss, used as a strong
SVM-based interval baseline;
(4) NFS-SVQR (Ye et al., 2025b): Nonlinear Feature Selection combined with SVQR, published in Neural Networks
(2025);
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 23 of 31

Table 6
Interval prediction results on the extreme-event test set of Farm 6 at 95% confidence level (𝛼 = 0.05).

Model

PICP

MPIW

PINAW

CWC

Winkler

NuSVR-CI
HybridDL-Interval
RLMKL
TSVQR
Standard SVQR
QGBR
CQR-MLP
AMQRNN
NFS-SVQR
UQSVM-SSVQR
TL-QLDMR (Ours)

0.843
0.954
0.957
0.889
0.959
0.949
0.942
0.940
0.913
0.928
0.959

19.970
31.645
31.804
24.592
34.342
31.715
31.750
32.432
68.359
81.710
25.791

0.208
0.329
0.331
0.256
0.357
0.330
0.330
0.337
0.711
0.850
0.268

0.285
0.329
0.331
0.342
0.357
0.429
0.431
0.441
0.941
1.117
0.268

54.603
60.224
39.275
48.178
42.067
37.643
46.772
66.874
76.997
85.162
34.506

(5) NuSVR-CI (Romano et al., 2019): 𝜈-Support Vector Regression with conformalized quantile regression (CQR)calibrated prediction intervals, included as a classical SVM baseline;
(6) RLMKL (Jiang et al., 2021): Robust low-rank multiple kernel learning with compound regularization; its
quantile-loss instantiation is used here as a strong robust kernel interval baseline.
Recent wind power interval prediction models:
(7) HybridDL-Interval (Mao et al., 2025): A hybrid deep learning framework for day-ahead wind power interval
forecasting, combining temporal attention and quantile loss;
(8) AMQRNN (Ye et al., 2025a): A recurrent attention encoder-decoder network for multi-step interval wind power
prediction, implemented using an attention-GRU network;
(9) QGBR (Hu & Liu, 2025): Quantile Gradient Boosted Regression, representing the improved quantile ensemble
learning framework for wind power prediction;
(10) CQR-MLP (Hu et al., 2025): MLP quantile ensemble with dynamic conformalized quantile regression, acting
as a simplified baseline for neural ensemble search methods.
Table 6 presents the interval prediction results on the extreme-event test set of Farm 6 at the 95% confidence level
(𝛼 = 0.05).
The interval prediction results indicate a clear reliability-sharpness trade-off under extreme events, and TLQLDMR offers the most favorable balance. TL-QLDMR reaches the nominal 95% coverage target (PICP = 0.959)
while obtaining the best composite quality (CWC = 0.268) and the best Winkler score (34.506), demonstrating that
transfer learning with validation-based width scaling can provide both reliable and sharp intervals.
Comparing against the kernel-based interval baselines highlights two distinct patterns. Standard SVQR achieves
the same coverage level as TL-QLDMR (PICP = 0.959) but produces substantially wider intervals (PINAW = 0.357
vs. 0.268), resulting in inferior CWC (0.357 vs. 0.268) and Winkler scores (42.067 vs. 34.506). RLMKL, as a robust
multiple-kernel comparator, attains reliable coverage (PICP = 0.957) with noticeably narrower intervals than Standard
SVQR (PINAW = 0.331 vs. 0.357) and a better Winkler score (39.275 vs. 42.067), confirming the value of robust kernel
combination. Nevertheless, TL-QLDMR still provides a materially sharper and better-calibrated solution, reducing
CWC from 0.331 to 0.268 while further improving the Winkler score to 34.506.
By contrast, NuSVR-CI and TSVQR produce narrow intervals but severe under-coverage (PICP = 0.843 and 0.889,
respectively), whereas HybridDL-Interval, QGBR, CQR-MLP, and AMQRNN can approach acceptable coverage only
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 24 of 31

with wider intervals. RLMKL therefore emerges as a stronger robust-kernel baseline than the conventional quantile
regressors, but it still remains dominated by TL-QLDMR on the joint reliability-sharpness criteria. This comparison
suggests that explicit asymmetric regularization combined with cross-domain adaptation is more effective for heavily
skewed extreme-event samples than either conventional quantile regression, robust multiple-kernel learning alone, or
deep learning approaches.
To assess interval robustness under sensor perturbation, Gaussian noise is injected into test inputs at SNR
∈ {60, 40, 30} dB. Table 7 reports the full set of interval metrics under this noisy-test protocol. Across all noise levels,
TL-QLDMR maintains the best CWC while keeping PICP above 0.95. The CWC values remain tightly concentrated
around 0.278, indicating stable interval quality under moderate measurement perturbation. RLMKL remains one of
the more stable robust-kernel baselines, with PINAW staying near 0.313 across all noise levels, but its PICP remains
slightly below the nominal level (0.9494), leading to a larger CWC penalty than TL-QLDMR. In contrast, NuSVR-CI
yields narrow intervals (small MPIW/PINAW) but exhibits severe under-coverage, and several deep/ensemble baselines
require substantially wider intervals to approach reliable coverage. These results indicate that TL-QLDMR preserves
a stronger reliability-sharpness balance under measurement perturbations.

4.8. Experiment 4: Ablation Study
To validate the contribution of the three core components (transfer learning, LDMR variance regularization,
and MMD feature alignment), this ablation experiment evaluates structurally reduced variants on both point and
interval tasks. Additionally, to verify the necessity of asymmetric variance regularization for quantile regression, we
include LDMR-Quantile (SymVar), which replaces the asymmetric variance term with standard symmetric variance
minimization while retaining the transfer learning framework.
The full TL-QLDMR framework is compared against four architectural reductions:
(1) LDMR-Quantile (SymVar): Replaces asymmetric variance regularization with symmetric variance minimization, testing whether the asymmetry is necessary for quantile-specific calibration.
(2) w/o Transfer (Target-only QLDMR): Trained exclusively on extreme-event target samples without sourcedomain integration or MMD alignment.
(3) w/o LDMR (Variance Penalty): The asymmetric variance regularizer is removed, deteriorating the framework
into a generalized Transfer SVR/SVQR variant that lacks distributional robustness.
(4) w/o MMD (Feature Alignment): The algorithm employs cross-domain training data but disables Maximum
Mean Discrepancy alignment, relying purely on weighted objective loss.
Table 8 reports the ablation results on Farm 6. The full TL-QLDMR consistently attains the best deterministic and
probabilistic performance, indicating that all three components contribute non-trivially to final accuracy and calibration
quality.
The ablation outcomes confirm that each component contributes materially to robustness. Removing transfer
learning reduces both point accuracy (𝑅2 : 0.9557 → 0.9497) and interval quality (CWC: 0.2683 → 0.2797), indicating
that target-only training is insufficient under strong domain shift. Removing LDMR regularization or MMD alignment
causes clear interval-quality degradation (CWC rises to 0.3507 and 0.3528), even when point-metric changes are
smaller, showing that residual-shape control and feature alignment are central to reliable uncertainty estimation.
Critically, the LDMR-Quantile (SymVar) variant—which replaces asymmetric variance with symmetric variance
minimization—exhibits degraded performance on both point prediction (RMSE: 7.868 vs. 7.476) and interval prediction (CWC: 0.3029 vs. 0.2683, PINAW: 0.3029 vs. 0.2683). This degradation empirically validates our theoretical
analysis in Section 3: symmetric variance minimization, while effective for mean regression, conflicts with the
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 25 of 31

Table 7
Interval prediction results under varying SNR on the extreme-event test set of Farm 6 at 95% confidence level (𝛼 = 0.05).

Model
NuSVR-CI
HybridDL-Interval
RLMKL
TSVQR
Standard SVQR
QGBR
CQR-MLP
AMQRNN
NFS-SVQR
UQSVM-SSVQR

TL-QLDMR (Ours)

SNR (dB)

PICP

MPIW

PINAW

CWC

Winkler

30
40
60
30
40
60
30
40
60
30
40
60
30
40
60
30
40
60
30
40
60
30
40
60
30
40
60
30
40
60
30
40
60

0.8386
0.8361
0.8434
0.9422
0.9422
0.9422
0.9494
0.9494
0.9494
0.8892
0.8892
0.8892
0.9446
0.9422
0.9446
0.9518
0.9518
0.9470
0.9325
0.9325
0.9325
0.9518
0.9518
0.9518
0.9060
0.9133
0.9133
0.9229
0.9277
0.9277
0.9542
0.9566
0.9566

19.970
19.970
19.970
32.304
32.307
32.306
30.161
30.101
30.095
24.570
24.588
24.592
29.704
29.725
29.728
32.067
31.721
31.706
32.548
32.550
32.554
33.517
33.513
33.512
68.369
68.376
68.359
81.706
81.718
81.710
26.709
26.713
26.715

0.2077
0.2077
0.2077
0.3360
0.3361
0.3361
0.3138
0.3131
0.3131
0.2556
0.2558
0.2558
0.3090
0.3092
0.3092
0.3336
0.3300
0.3298
0.3386
0.3386
0.3386
0.3487
0.3486
0.3486
0.7112
0.7113
0.7111
0.8499
0.8501
0.8500
0.2778
0.2779
0.2779

0.2856
0.2860
0.2849
0.4384
0.4385
0.4385
0.4080
0.4072
0.4071
0.3422
0.3424
0.3425
0.4027
0.4034
0.4030
0.3336
0.3300
0.4294
0.4438
0.4438
0.4438
0.3487
0.3486
0.3486
0.9442
0.9409
0.9407
1.1191
1.1167
1.1166
0.2778
0.2779
0.2779

54.922
54.623
54.588
53.462
53.420
53.408
39.063
39.235
39.200
48.306
48.140
48.169
41.541
41.429
41.420
38.441
37.424
37.750
48.828
48.780
48.743
68.546
68.517
68.515
77.305
76.878
76.983
85.364
85.178
85.162
36.307
36.034
36.083

asymmetric residual distribution required for accurate quantile estimation. The symmetric regularizer forces errors
toward a centered, Gaussian-like distribution, thereby degrading interval calibration at non-median quantiles.
The residual-density comparison in Fig. 8 supports this conclusion by showing tighter central concentration and
weaker heavy tails for the full TL-QLDMR model; some ablated variants exhibit sharper central peaks but noticeably
thicker tails, which corresponds to a higher probability of large-error events.

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 26 of 31

Table 8
Ablation study evaluations for point and interval prediction on the Farm 6 test set.

Point Prediction
Model Variants

RMSE

𝑅2

w/o LDMR (Variance)
w/o Transfer
LDMR-Quantile (SymVar)
w/o MMD
TL-QLDMR (Full)

8.205
7.930
7.868
7.745
7.476

0.9461
0.9497
0.9472
0.9520
0.9557

Interval Prediction (95% Level)
PICP

MPIW

PINAW

CWC

0.949
0.952
0.952
0.947
0.959

25.925
26.891
29.114
26.049
25.791

0.2697
0.2797
0.3029
0.2710
0.2683

0.3507
0.2797
0.3029
0.3528
0.2683

Fig. 8: Residual density comparison between TL-QLDMR and ablated variants on the Farm 6 test set.

4.9. Experiment 5: Scalable Optimization Validation
Experiment 5 evaluates whether the proposed Nyström-SGD solver can maintain computational efficiency as the
training scale increases. The proposed solver is compared against three representative optimization baselines: (i) exact
dual quadratic programming solved by CVXOPT, (ii) gradient-based optimization of the QP objective (Torch-GD),
and (iii) mini-batch SGD with kernel-slice approximation.
To stress-test scalability, we consider seven training scales, increasing the combined training size from 100 to
the full 𝑁 = 69,737. The evaluated sizes are 𝑁 = 100, 500, 1,000, 3,000, 10,000, 30,000, and 69,737. For each
configuration, wall-clock training time (seconds) is recorded. Table 9 summarizes the results.
The full-QP routes lose practicality quickly as the scale increases. CVXOPT grows from 0.509 seconds at 𝑁 = 100
to 7.655 seconds at 𝑁 = 1,000 and is not extended further thereafter. Torch-GD remains workable slightly longer, but
already requires 20.395 seconds at 𝑁 = 3,000, indicating that direct optimization of the kernel QP becomes inefficient
well before the full training regime is reached.

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 27 of 31

Table 9
Training time (seconds) of four solvers over expanding training scales on Farm 6. “—” denotes runs not extended further because
of prohibitive computational cost.

𝑁
100
500
1,000
3,000
10,000
30,000
69,737

CVXOPT

Torch-GD

Batch SGD

Nyström-SGD (Ours)

0.509
1.052
7.655
—
—
—
—

2.155
2.618
2.979
20.395
—
—
—

2.746
4.637
5.699
6.418
10.401
25.338
—

0.035
1.035
1.038
2.468
2.703
3.483
5.021

Batch SGD avoids exact QP solving but remains substantially slower than the proposed Nyström-SGD solver at
medium and large scales; for example, at 𝑁 = 30,000 it requires 25.338 seconds, compared with 3.483 seconds for the
Nyström-SGD route. By contrast, the proposed solver is the only optimization route that completes the entire uncapped
training set, reaching 𝑁 = 69,737 in 5.021 seconds. This trend is consistent with the theoretical reduction from 𝑂(𝑁 3 )
to 𝑂(𝑇 ⋅ 𝑁 ⋅ 𝑚): runtime growth remains comparatively mild even after the target-domain sample count saturates and
the additional data come almost entirely from the source domain.

4.10. Discussion
The extended experimental evaluations yield the following conclusive insights:
Classical and robust kernel baselines establish the necessity of proposed extensions. Experiment 2 demonstrates that Standard SVR achieves moderate performance (RMSE = 8.564), while Standard LDMR and BLSSVR
remain substantially weaker on the cross-domain extreme-event task. This degradation confirms that symmetric
variance minimization or bounded-loss robustness alone is insufficient when target-domain adaptation is absent.
In Experiment 3, RLMKL provides a stronger robust-kernel interval baseline than conventional SVQR variants,
but TL-QLDMR still achieves markedly better joint reliability-sharpness quality, showing that asymmetric variance
regularization and supervised transfer adaptation remain necessary.
Transfer learning improves deterministic forecasting under severe shift. Experiment 2 shows consistent gains
in RMSE and 𝑅2 over both classical baselines and recent variants, and curve-level evidence confirms better tracking
during abrupt peak-valley transitions.
Interval forecasting achieves a better reliability-sharpness balance. In Experiment 3, TL-QLDMR achieves
the highest coverage reliability among the compared methods while also obtaining the best composite penalty (CWC),
and this advantage persists under injected measurement noise.
Ablation confirms the necessity of each component. Removing transfer learning reduces both point and interval
performance under severe domain shift; removing asymmetric LDMR variance regularization degrades distributional
robustness and interval calibration; removing MMD alignment weakens feature-space adaptation. Critically, the
LDMR-Quantile (SymVar) variant confirms that symmetric variance minimization conflicts with quantile-specific
asymmetry requirements, validating our theoretical analysis. Residual-density plots provide complementary evidence
for this degradation.
The scalable optimizer materially reduces computational burden. Experiment 5 shows that the NyströmSGD solver is the only optimization route that reaches the full uncapped training scale (𝑁 = 69,737), completing
training in 5.021 seconds, whereas CVXOPT, Torch-GD, and batch SGD stall much earlier due to rapidly increasing
computational cost.
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 28 of 31

Limitations and future work. The present evaluation is based on onshore wind farms and fixed feature engineering
pipelines; extension to offshore assets, dynamic re-calibration strategies, and hybrid deep-kernel transfer formulations
remains a relevant direction.

5. Conclusion
This paper presents TL-QLDMR for wind power forecasting under extreme events, where target-domain samples
are limited and distribution shift is pronounced. The method combines asymmetric variance regularization, MMDbased feature alignment, and weighted pinball loss within a unified transfer-learning quantile framework, with
theoretical guarantees on positive definiteness and convergence.
Experimental results show that TL-QLDMR delivers consistent gains in both deterministic and interval forecasting
on the most challenging target farm. For point prediction, it achieves the best RMSE (7.478) and 𝑅2 (0.9557). For 95%
interval prediction, it attains PICP = 0.959 together with the best CWC (0.268), indicating a favorable reliabilitysharpness trade-off. Under injected noise, TL-QLDMR remains the strongest model across reported point and interval
metrics. In addition, the Nyström-SGD solver provides practical scalability, completing the full uncapped training set
(𝑁 = 69,737) in 5.021 seconds, whereas CVXOPT, Torch-GD, and batch SGD do not remain computationally viable
at the same scale.
Future work will focus on extending the framework to multi-site spatiotemporal coupling, adaptive online
recalibration under non-stationary weather, and hybrid kernel-deep transfer formulations.

CRediT authorship contribution statement
Junlin Chen: Methodology, Software, Writing - original draft. Bo Wang: Writing – review & editing, Funding
acquisition. Zhihang Yu: Formal analysis, Software. Pei-chun Lin: Validation, Supervision. Libo Zhang: Funding
acquisition. Junzo Watada: Validation, Supervision.

Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

Acknowledgments
This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 72471109 and
Grant 62106205.

References
Ben-David, S., Blitzer, J., Crammer, K., Kulesza, A., Pereira, F., & Vaughan, J. W. (2010). A theory of learning from different domains. Machine
Learning, 79, 151–175. doi:10.1007/s10994-009-5152-4.
Bottou, L., Curtis, F. E., & Nocedal, J. (2018). Optimization methods for large-scale machine learning. SIAM Review, 60, 223–311. doi:10.1137/
16M1080173.
Chen, Y., & Shi, J. (2025). Broad random forest: A lightweight prediction model for short-term wind power by fusing broad learning and random
forest. Sustainability, 17, 4894. doi:10.3390/su17114894.
Chen, Y., & Xu, J. (2022). Solar and wind power data from the chinese state grid renewable energy generation forecasting competition. Scientific
Data, 9, 684. doi:10.1038/s41597-022-01696-6.
Cheng, F., Zhang, J., & Wen, C. (2016). Cost-sensitive large margin distribution machine for classification of imbalanced data. Pattern Recognition
Letters, 80, 107–112. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2016.06.009.
Duan, Y. et al. (2025). Research on support vector regression short-time traffic flow prediction model for secondary roads based on associated road
analysis. Applied Sciences, 15, 1779. doi:10.3390/app15041779.
Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 29 of 31

Fu, S., Tian, Y., & Tang, L. (2023). Robust regression under the general framework of bounded loss functions. European Journal of Operational
Research, 310, 1325–1339. doi:10.1016/j.ejor.2023.04.025.
Guo, T., Tan, X., Yang, L., Liang, Z., Zhang, B., & Zhang, L. (2022). Domain adaptive subspace transfer model for sensor drift compensation in
biologically inspired electronic nose. Expert Systems with Applications, 208, 118237. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2022.118237.
Gupta, U., & Gupta, D. (2021). Least squares large margin distribution machine for regression. Applied Intelligence, 51, 7058–7093. doi:10.1007/
s10489-020-02166-5.
Hazarika, B. B., & Gupta, D. (2023). Mode decomposition based large margin distribution machines for sediment load prediction. Expert Systems
with Applications, 232, 120844. doi:10.1016/j.eswa.2023.120844.
Hazarika, B. B., Gupta, D., & Borah, P. (2023). Robust support vector quantile regression with truncated pinball loss (rsvqr). Computational and
Applied Mathematics, 42. doi:10.1007/s40314-023-02402-x.
Houssein, E. H. et al. (2025). A hybrid harris hawks optimization with support vector regression for air quality forecasting. Scientific Reports, 15.
doi:10.1038/s41598-025-86275-6.
Hu, J., Deng, Y., & Che, J. (2025). A novel wind power interval prediction method based on neural ensemble search and dynamic conformalized
quantile regression. Applied Soft Computing, 180, 113476. doi:10.1016/j.asoc.2025.113476.
Hu, L., & Liu, Y. (2025). A day-ahead wind power conformal interval forecasting framework based on numerical weather prediction data and
improved quantile ensemble learning. Journal of Renewable and Sustainable Energy, 17, 046104. doi:10.1063/5.0233770.
Jiang, H., Tao, C., Dong, Y., & Xiong, R. (2021). Robust low-rank multiple kernel learning with compound regularization. European Journal of
Operational Research, 295, 634–647. doi:10.1016/j.ejor.2020.12.024.
Jonkers, J., Avendano, D. N., Van Wallendael, G., & Van Hoecke, S. (2024). A novel day-ahead regional and probabilistic wind power forecasting
framework using deep cnns and conformalized regression forests. Applied Energy, 361, 122900. doi:10.1016/j.apenergy.2024.122900.
Kumar, S., Mohri, M., & Talwalkar, A. (2012). Sampling methods for the nyström method. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 13, 981–1006.
Li, L.-L., Zhao, X., Tseng, M.-L., & Tan, R. R. (2021). Improving short-term wind power prediction using hybrid improved cuckoo search arithmetic
– support vector regression machine. Journal of Cleaner Production, 279, 123739. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.123739.
Liang, Z., Chai, R., Sun, Y., Jiang, Y., & Sun, D. (2025). Cold wave recognition and wind power forecasting technology considering sample scarcity
and meteorological periodicity characteristics. Applied Sciences, 15, 4312. doi:10.3390/app15084312.
Liu, G., Liu, J., Bai, Y., Wang, C., Wang, H., Zhao, H., Liang, G., Zhao, J., & Qiu, J. (2023). Eweld: A large-scale industrial and commercial load
dataset in extreme weather events. Scientific Data, 10, 615. doi:10.1038/s41597-023-02503-6.
Liu, Y., Wang, J., & Liu, L. (2024). Physics-informed reinforcement learning for probabilistic wind power forecasting under extreme events. Applied
Energy, 376, 124068. doi:10.1016/j.apenergy.2024.124068.
Luo, J., Hong, T., Gao, Z., & Fang, S.-C. (2024). Fuzzy support vector regressions for short-term load forecasting. Fuzzy Optimization and Decision
Making, 23, 363–385. doi:10.1007/s10700-024-09422-0.
Mao, Y., Song, L., & Huang, H. (2025). A novel hybrid deep learning model for day-ahead wind power interval forecasting. Sustainability, 17,
3239. doi:10.3390/su17073239.
Meena, Y. et al. (2025). FLSVR: Solving lagrangian support vector regression using functional iterative method. Neural Processing Letters, .
doi:10.1007/s11063-025-11780-8.
Mustaffa, Z., & Sulaiman, M. H. (2025). Random forest based wind power prediction method for sustainable energy system. Cleaner Energy
Systems, . doi:10.1016/j.cles.2025.100210.
Pan, S. J., & Yang, Q. (2010). A survey on transfer learning. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 22, 1345–1359.
doi:10.1109/TKDE.2009.191.
Petersen, V. H., Pisinger, D., & Stålhane, M. (2026). Optimization in offshore wind farms – a survey of problems, models, and solution approaches.
European Journal of Operational Research, 332, 841–865. doi:10.1016/j.ejor.2026.03.002.
Rabanal, A., Ulazia, A., Ibarra-Berastegi, G., Saenz, J., & Elosegui, U. (2019). Midas: A benchmarking multi-criteria method for the identification
of defective anemometers in wind farms. Energies, 12, 28. doi:10.3390/en12010028.
Rizkallah, S. (2025). Enhancing the performance of gradient boosting trees on regression problems. Journal of Big Data, . doi:10.1186/
s40537-025-01071-3.
Romano, Y., Patterson, E., & Candès, E. J. (2019). Conformalized quantile regression. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32
(NeurIPS 2019) (pp. 3538–3548). URL: https://papers.nips.cc/paper/8613-conformalized-quantile-regression.
Schölkopf, B., Herbrich, R., & Smola, A. J. (2001). A general representer theorem. In Proceedings of the 14th Annual Conference on Computational
Learning Theory (pp. 416–426). Springer. doi:10.1007/3-540-44581-1_27.
Se, H., Song, K., Liu, H., Zhang, W., Wang, X., & Liu, J. (2023). A dual drift compensation framework based on subspace learning and cross-domain
adaptive extreme learning machine for gas sensors. Knowledge-Based Systems, 259, 110024. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2022.110024.
Sideratos, G., & Hatziargyriou, N. D. (2012). Wind power forecasting focused on extreme power system events. IEEE Transactions on Sustainable
Energy, 3, 445–454. doi:10.1109/TSTE.2012.2189442.
Tang, M., Ding, S. X., Yang, C., Cheng, F., Shardt, Y. A., Long, W., & Liu, D. (2019). Cost-sensitive large margin distribution machine for fault
detection of wind turbines. Cluster Computing, 22, 7525–7537. doi:10.1007/s10586-018-1854-3.
Tao, J., lai Chung, F., & Wang, S. (2012). On minimum distribution discrepancy support vector machine for domain adaptation. Pattern Recognition,
45, 3962–3984. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2012.04.014.
Taylor, J. W. (2007). Forecasting daily supermarket sales using exponentially weighted quantile regression. European Journal of Operational
Research, 178, 154–167. doi:10.1016/j.ejor.2006.02.006.
Trafalis, T. B., & Gilbert, R. C. (2006). Robust classification and regression using support vector machines. European Journal of Operational
Research, 173, 893–909. doi:10.1016/j.ejor.2005.07.024.
Wang, Y., Zou, R., Liu, F., Zhang, L., & Liu, Q. (2021). A review of wind speed and wind power forecasting with deep neural networks. Applied
Energy, 304, 117766. doi:10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.117766.

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 30 of 31

Wen, H., & Pinson, P. (2026). Value-oriented forecast reconciliation for renewables in electricity markets. European Journal of Operational
Research, 332, 492–504. doi:10.1016/j.ejor.2025.12.011.
Yan, J., Chen, F., Liu, T., Zhang, Y., Peng, X., Yi, D., & Duan, S. (2022). Subspace alignment based on an extreme learning machine for electronic
nose drift compensation. Knowledge-Based Systems, 235, 107664. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2021.107664.
Yan, J., Li, X., Wang, H., Si, F., Qiao, W., & Liu, Y. (2025). The economic value of wind power forecasting: A data-driven method and its application
in various scenarios. Energy, 340, 139151. doi:10.1016/j.energy.2025.139151.
Yang, W., Zhang, Z., & Chen, X. (2024). Vibration-based looseness identification of bolted structures via quasi-analytic wavelet packet and optimized
large margin distribution machine. Structural Health Monitoring, 23, 856–875. doi:10.1177/14759217231159948.
Ye, X., Liu, C., Xiong, X., & Qi, Y. (2025a). Recurrent attention encoder-decoder network for multi-step interval wind power prediction. Energy,
315, 134317. doi:10.1016/j.energy.2024.134317.
Ye, Y.-F., Wang, J., & Chen, W.-J. (2025b). Nonlinear feature selection for support vector quantile regression. Neural Networks, 185, 107136.
doi:10.1016/j.neunet.2025.107136.
Ye, Y.-F. et al. (2023). Twin support vector quantile regression. Expert Systems with Applications, 221, 121239. doi:10.1016/j.eswa.2023.
121239.
Yuan, R., Wang, B., Sun, Y., Song, X., & Watada, J. (2023). Conditional style-based generative adversarial networks for renewable scenario
generation. IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, 38, 1281–1296. doi:10.1109/TPWRS.2022.3170992.
Yuan, X., Shi, J., & Xu, J. (2022). Wind power prediction method: Support vector regression optimized by improved jellyfish search algorithm.
Energies, 15, 6404. doi:10.3390/en15176404.
Zhai, S., Han, M., Li, Z., Yang, S., Duan, S., & Yan, J. (2023). M2fl-ccc: Multibranch multilayer feature leaning and comprehensive classification criterion for gas sensor drift compensation. IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, 72, 1–12.
https://doi.org/10.1109/TIM.2023.3296820.
Zhang, K., & Kwok, J. T. (2010). Clustered nyström method for large scale manifold learning and dimension reduction. IEEE Transactions on
Neural Networks, 21, 1576–1587. doi:10.1109/TNN.2010.2064786.
Zhang, T., & Zhou, Z.-H. (2014). Large margin distribution machine. In Proceedings of the 20th ACM SIGKDD international conference on
Knowledge discovery and data mining (pp. 313–322). doi:10.1145/2623330.2623710.
Zhang, T., & Zhou, Z.-H. (2020). Optimal margin distribution machine. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 32, 1143–1156.
doi:10.1109/TKDE.2019.2897662.

Junlin Chen et al.:

Preprint submitted to European Journal of Operational Research

Page 31 of 31

